 Welcome to Better System Trader, live the show for systematic and algorithmic traders. Welcome to this show. We're going to be talking about something that we don't often get to talk about. It's a topic, I think. Maybe in this industry, there isn't a lot of, or that I know, of a lot of legitimate systematic or algorithmic traders. But today, the guy I've found for you is, I think, is amazing. Actually, he's been on the trading panel the last couple of weeks. He may recognize him, but he is an algorithmic trader, crypto specialist. Welcome to the show. Pavo Kicek. Thank you, Andrew. Hi. Thank you for having me. I have to say that I love your podcast. So for me, it is really honor to be here. Thank you. Excellent. Well, it's great to have you on BST Live. As I mentioned, you've been on the trading panel a couple of times and you've always got a lot of good insights and comments to share there. So I'm really looking forward to having this conversation with you today. And as I mentioned, our topic is going to be algorithmic crypto trading. So I discovered you actually on Twitter. I don't know. Maybe a couple of months ago, right? And there was, I think it was something about robustness. And I was like, you know, and often see people in the crypto space talking about robustness, draw down portfolio. And I was like, this guy is good. So, you know, we had some discussions and I've looked into some of your stuff. And we're going to dig into some of that today. So I'm really looking forward to our chat. But first, how about a little bit of background on yourself? Can you tell us a little bit of your, I guess, your trading background so we can have some context around our discussion today? Yeah, of course. Well, the topic robustness, by the way, is one of my favorite ones. So I'm really looking forward to it. So my background, I have to say I started. It's typical discretionary traders. So I thought that I will outsmart, I will outsmart markets by looking at the charts as often as possible to get a feeling of the charts, you know, you know, probably all of us know it. So this, where my starts in, let's say, 2007, 2008, then I started trading like semi-discrashionary, half automatically or half systematically, I used to be trading like mini version strategies on eminent equities and the level to data. So this was the first time after, let's say, five years, four to five years when I started being somehow profitable. But to me, I have to say I was always struggling trading, profitably discretionary because I missed some background, some data that I could, for example, use if I was in draw downs and so on. So when my, I started, in fact, then I started investing systematically like those minrever or not, these rotational strategies like gold, ETF on spider and these very simple rotational strategies that are working. And I think many people could start with them just to get the confidence in systematic trading. And then like seven to eight years back, I switched completely to systematic trading. I traded many assets. For example, minrever, version strategies on forex, I traded breakouts on commodities. And then mainly I created broad portfolios of uncorrelated strategies on equities. And few years back, I started investing in Bitcoin because to me it was interesting asset, but I don't know why I didn't recognize the volatility and the possibility of how crypto in general is volatile, you know, because for us traders, I would say volatility is the first reason or the reason number one, we, why we want to trade the asset. And that's why it took me like another two years, before I started trading crypto systematically like two years ago, the problem of course is that there is no infrastructure for us algorithmic traders. So we have to start, we have to start building the overall infrastructure for crypto trading with my partner, zero box, because the problem in crypto is that, for example, on equities, you can trade semi-automatically or semi-systematically, which means that you will don't know the data at the end of the day. You will run your scanners and you will send your orders, but on crypto, it's impossible, especially if you want to trade 10, 15 strategies together in one portfolio. That's why we started building this backend and started trading purely automatically. Yeah. Okay. Well, we're going to dig into that a little bit deeper in our discussion today, but I just want to start with a Twitter message between you and I. This was a private one, but I, so I hope you don't mind that I share it, but it's a good message. It's just reading it here. I'm trying to, so we were talking about, I think I might have been asking you why, you know, what are you doing with your trading? And you said, I'm trying to give back some of my knowledge on Twitter, because especially in crypto trading, people have such wrong expectations. And it's a bit of a shame because I still think we have a nice period of a few years of many huge inefficiencies in crypto. So that's a good comment. What types of wrong expectations are you seeing people having crypto? Well, there are many, many, many wrong expectations. Most of them have their roots in hindsight bias. You know, there are many coins that made like 10,000 percent, 100,000 percent in the past. And everyone is jumping on the last best crypto opportunity to make those 10,000 percent on this individual or single coin, which is basically the biggest, biggest problem in crypto. And then of course, expectations that have their roots as in this, in this thinking, you know, because how I feel it for us traders, once we get wrong mindset about trading, then it is very hard to switch to the proper risk management type of thinking that we should always hold and we should always be in. And once you get into this gambler mindset, like by this coin, because it will be going through moon overnight and so on, then you are basically done. I don't think you can make any money in crypto. Yeah, yeah. That's a really good point. And I think we're going to dig into risk management a little bit later. At a high level, what are some of the risks with crypto trading? Yeah, in crypto, one of the biggest risks is just being in crypto, you know, because yeah, it's just through, you know, in crypto, there is a lot of regulatory in clarity still, even though there are like new laws that will be valid in this or following here, for example, in Europe, there are still a lot of in clarity here. One of the biggest risks is just trading on single exchange because we all know FDX case and so on. Another huge risk is investing into one or two, three coins, you know, not to allocate accordingly. Another risk is just being scammed by many people who are trying to sell you something or just purely steal your assets from your wallet and so on. So you really have to be, you really have to be very concentrated if you want invest into crypto, but on the other side, my premises, if all these risks will be covered and they will be covered in the future, I'm pretty sure about it. The potential, the potential rewards will be much lower. So, you know, we are again to this reward to risk ratios and expectations and to me, in crypto, it is more about allocation, how much you should allocate that then if you should allocate it because the potential is still very big here. Yeah. Well, let's talk about that potential a little bit more. In the second part of that, Twitter message that I just read out a moment ago, you said that we're going to have a nice period of a few years of many huge inefficiencies in crypto. So let's talk a little bit about these inefficiencies or more specifically, maybe about building crypto strategies. Now I'm sure we've all heard about the huge rise and fall of some of these crypto markets. What type of strategies do you think, or trading style works best for crypto? Yeah, this is very, very interesting question because again, my premise is that I don't know much about market, especially I don't know much about the future of the market, especially in crypto because we all know crypto is pretty young as said. So now, if I should pick up one strategy or one approach that is making the most money, it will be trend trading or trend strategies or breakout strategies. On the other side, we don't know how the market in general will be evolving. So that's why I'm thinking about it more in general. For example, will it be behaving in the future as forex? Will it have more like range bound characteristics? For example, or will it be really an asset that will in fact have some value because most of the crypto coins just don't have any value at all. That's why there are very short, but sharp trends, but not long-term trendiness as we can, for example, see in stocks. So to me, it is really more about building broader portfolios and taking advantage of trends through trend strategies and breakout strategies and inefficiencies through minriversion strategies. Because, yes, there are big trends that you can catch thanks to trend struts, but on the other side, there are many of those pumps and dump schemes or basically over-arrayations thanks to the emitters that are on the market that you can trade against thanks to minriversion strategies. You hear these stories of, excuse me, sorry about that, you hear these stories of traders from the 1970s or 1980s and they say, when I was trading the futures markets back then, I could just put on a simple moving average by above, so below, and make a lot of money. It was really, they had these really basic trading strategies that seemed to work well. And then over time, as I guess the markets become more mature, you get more participation, different levels of experience in those markets, it tends to get noisier, and the characteristics of the markets change, which means then you've got to adjust the start of trading a little bit. So you seeing that kind of development now in crypto, like do simple strategies work now or do you need to be more complicated? That's exactly what I expect even in the future. That's something like that will be happening here. But for example, let's talk more specifically. If you try some moving average crossover strategy, it will be making money on crypto. But you can see that three, four years ago, the edge, the overperformance compared to some benchmark was much higher than today, for example. But it is still overperforming benchmark, just this very simple strategy. On the other side, minre version strategies, for example, to the short side on crypto, weren't that profitable two, three years back, but now they are performing massively. But of course, they are big risk because crypto is exponential asset, so you can just shorten these huge moves to the short side. Minre version strategies, I would say, have to be more professional built compared to even equities, because for example, equities are like short term minreverting market, I would say. And minre version strategies are performing quite well on crypto, at least to the short side, you have to think about it a little bit more in which time and in which periods you want to trade them. But yes, it is exactly, as you said, I can already see that the very simple strategies are performing well, but a little bit worse than two, three years ago. So that's interesting because you can, I guess you could study the developments of these other markets that are more mature now like the futures markets and kind of overlay that on what potentially the crypto market might be doing, maybe in shorter cycles because we've got a lot of technology and stuff these days that accelerates that type of thing. But it's pretty cool to think of maybe you've got a roadway or a path to follow in this newly developing market now. Exactly, that's by the way. Only what we are doing in Robaxio and by myself when I'm building strategies, I'm looking at the past, I'm looking at commodities in 1980s, I'm looking at, for example, stocks on the start of 2000 before the tech bubble or during the tech bubble, you know, you have to find some other assets to make your robustness testing and to see what was working in those times and in those periods because I think it is worth it. And for example, I still don't get the reason why, for example, Larry Williams doesn't write crypto because he used to be trading commodities which I think in 1980s were similar to risk it as crypto these days. And this was also the reason why he was making 10,000 or he made 10,000% in year audited and in crypto, I think in a very good year, you can still make something like that if you want to go through such a huge risks as, for example, Larry went in in 1980s. Well, Larry is not 20 something years old now, so maybe his appetite for risk is a little bit different. Probably, but I believe that Larry, that young Larry would definitely create crypto these days. You're a loaded. Yeah, exactly. Now, I just wanted to, I noticed there's a comment here from Antonio in the chat, which is kind of leading to my next question about volatility. So Antonio said, check the standard deviations per hour if you scap, which is an interesting approach. You've already kind of mentioned the volatility in crypto markets can be pretty huge at times. How do you, how do you use that knowledge or that insight to, to adjust how you're trading strategies work? Yeah. Well, first of all, I love the volatility of crypto. I think every trader basically loves volatility. So to me, it's the biggest advantage of crypto to do through. It's the reason why I'm in crypto. So how I'm dealing with volatility is that I'm trading portfolio of uncoordinated strategies. And it means that I'm also trading strategies in which every strategy basically trades up to 15 to 20 positions. So this is first thing how I'm dealing with volatility. Many uncoordinated strategies, every strategy has a little bit different role in the overall portfolio. And that's why I'm also having some maximum threshold. How much exposure I want to have to one coin, for example, because as I said earlier, one of the biggest risk is to be overexposed to one coin because you never know if this coin won't go to zero overnight, you know. So that's why the exposure, the overall exposure to one asset one coin has to be pretty low. And then I'm really dealing with volatility the way that I'm trading mini reversion threats, threats, breakouts, strategies. And I'm spreading the capital accordingly. Yeah. Yeah. Now you make a good point there about some coins potentially going to zero and some have had a huge run up. And you made a point in, I think it was two weeks ago in the trading panel about survivorship bias. Or maybe I made the point. I don't recall. We were talking about it. Anyway, we were talking about it. Yeah. And I noticed when I was looking on your blog that you had a really interesting chart about survivorship bias. And do you want to talk about this one in crypto? I think this was a really excellent example. I'm going to put it on the screen. Yeah. Yeah. Can you talk about the impact of survivorship bias on crypto trading? Here we go. It's coming up. Boom. Yeah. Well, survivorship bias has a huge impact to any trading, you know, not just on crypto, but especially on crypto, the impact is huge. Why? Because crypto is firstly exponential assets. And secondly, there are many losers and just a very few of real winners. So for example, this example is a very good one. If you trade, for example, today's top 10 coins with some trend strategy, which is basically this example, you would get the performance of the blue chart. But if you would be trading top 10 coins on the day when they were really in top 10, you would get the green chart, which is basically for like 5x lower or maybe even 10x lower the performance. So the more volatile the asset and the more immature the asset, the more the survivorship bias can affect your trading and your back testing, especially your back testing. Because if you don't back this properly on survivorship bias free database, then you just can't get the proper results that should somehow be similar to real life trading. But again, this is quite problem because for example, for equities, you have your Nordgate data, but in crypto, there are not many services. I don't know about any. So that's why we built our own solution just to have proper data and proper results of the back tests. Yeah. Yeah. I think this is a really excellent example that shows the impact of survivorship bias. I remember when I was trading stocks many, many years ago, when I had access to the Nordgate survivorship bias and the results can sometimes be huge. And this is an excellent example because I think a lot of people, especially beginner traders, don't understand the impact that that can have. And so they would think this blue line is what they're going to trade and then they get a bit of a shock when it's nowhere near what they're expecting. So it's a very an example here. Yeah. Thank you, but the survivorship bias is in fact everywhere. You can see it even on ETF investing, you know, that people are choosing just, for example, NASDAQ because it is overperforming these days or they are choosing, I don't know, NVIDIA because it is performing like crazy these days, but you never know if it will be overperforming even in the future. So that's why this survivorship bias and the inside bias are two biggest problems for traders and investors in general, I would say. Yep. Now, I want to move on to robustness testing in a moment, but I know this question is, it hasn't come up in the chat yet, I'm quite surprised, but people will ask, what platform do you use for testing, where do you get your data, all that type of practical things? So how do you actually do your testing? Yeah. Strata testing. Well, first of all, you have to have good data, which again, in crypto, it is a bit of problem. So we are getting data from Binance and from Qconn, we are creating and building our own survivorship bias free databases on which we are making tests for testing. We are using real real test, which is software. I can really recommend to anyone, especially to non programmers as as myself, for example, because the code, the language is like super simple. I can compare it, for example, to Amy Broker that I used to be using in the past. And the real test is really very, very nice and very simple, very logics software. And then, of course, I think that if you really want to be serious with your trading, you have to have at least two solutions that you cross-check your results between each other. So that's why we also built our proprietary backend, backtesting software. And we are checking those results with real test and we are having two different sources of backtesting. But real test is good start. The only problem is the data. I don't think you can find proper data for survivorship bias free testing these days. Or I didn't find any to tell you through. What about the length of the data? Because some of those coins don't have a lot of history, compared to if you look at stocks for the futures markets, which go down a long way. How does that affect what you're testing? Of course, history, that's the truth. We just don't have enough data in crypto. That's definitely true. That's why it's affecting the roots of building the strategies. I would say you really have to think about building strategies a little bit differently compared to, for example, commodities compared to equities where there is a lot of data. So that's why, for example, I'm building the strategies that way that most of my strategies have some roots in very old strategies. So for example, from Larry Williams, 1980s or another well-known traders from the start of 2000. Because I can see that those strategies went over quite long out of sample, like real testing. Of course, you can't use the strategy by itself for crypto because crypto is much quicker. But the logic, the entriologic or the exit logic can be very similar to those like other ones. But you have to spread the capital. So you have to really trade every single strategy as a portfolio. And it is like support for your overall portfolio. Because otherwise, you are just too exposed to one coin. Because basically, the idea of my trading is making money from volatility, not from betting on one or two or even ten coins. Yep. Okay. We've got a question in the chat about diversification, which we'll get to a little bit later. Because I know you've got some good insights about that one. But let's jump to robustness testing for a bit. So I know this is one of your favorite things based on our previous discussions. And also on your blog, you talk a lot about robustness testing. So how do you know when a strategy is robust? What are you looking for? Yeah. Well, that's a very good question to tell you through. I have to say that you never know if your strategy is robust. No, you, like really, you really never know. You have, you just have to make as much as possible and go through some robustness procedure and through robustness processes to know that you made as much as possible for the strategy to let the her like trading life. Before even robustness, you have to make really one step back and you have to build the strategies properly. You know, so for example, my ideas are that you have to build the strategies with idea first approach, which means that you follow some logic. So you want to try to know if you want to trade trends strategies, mini version strategies and so on. Because then you can go to the proper robustness testing. For example, it is quite hard to use some work forward optimization and work forward robustness testing because on five, six years of data, you can get very good results just by pure luck, you know. So this is not a good method in my opinion. What I'm looking at the most is really robustness over parameters, which means basically that for example, if I'm trading some very simple strategy and I'm using moving average 10, for example, moving average 20, I want to see that the strategy is performing very similarly with moving average five, seven, eight, up to 15, let's say minus 50% plus 50%. Another thing that or another approach that I'm using is that I'm testing all our strategies on for our charts or 12 hour charts just to get as much data as possible. And I want to see them performing well or at least average. I don't want to see them like going down immediately. And another thing that we are using just to get more data, for example, I don't think that many traders are using it is that we are taking the advantage of crypto being 24, seven market, which means that we are creating our own artificial daily closes, you know. So we are using the official daily close and we are having another 23 unofficial artificial daily closes. And I want to see again, the stability over these artificial daily closes and how it is impacting the strategy in general. So this is one of our business testing, but another one I would say that is having its root just in pure logic is, for example, that if I'm trading trend strategy to the alongside, I want to see this strategy performing well in trends, basically in long trends. I know this is very simple logic, but not many is using it. And if I'm looking at mini version strategies to the short side, I don't mind if it is losing money in strong long trends, you know. And if you really start building your strategies with idea first approach, you know when your strategy should be making money and when it should be losing money. And if it is losing money in the faces when it is supposed to be losing money, then you don't have to care about it that much. You just look at it and you are basically looking at like general parameters and if it is still in some range. Right. Okay. So what about which market do you actually test on? Like, you know, obviously the big one is Bitcoin. Are you testing strategies on Bitcoin and then testing them on other markets as well or do you like where do you start your testing? Yeah. I never test the strategy on single coin. I'm always testing my strategies on survivor ship bias free databases. And I'm always starting with, with I would say some kind of basic characteristics I want to trade. For example, I'm building the strategies that way that they have to be able to trade with few mills. For example, so I need to be able to trade on highly liquid or at least average liquid coins. And that's why I'm building the strategies that way that I will choose some data set of highly liquid coins. And I'm testing, I'm testing the strategies on those coins, but without survivor ship bias free. So let's say I want to trade on 10 most liquid coins, which I don't want to. I'm choosing a little bit different parameters, but let's say 10 most liquid coins. And you have to use the same 10 liquid coins today or the 10 most 10 most liquid coins like one year back, but not the same ones. You just have to have this survivor ship bias free database, which is really again, the biggest mistake I can see in beginner traders, but even in intermediate traders, I would say not many are realizing how big the survivor ship bias free like survivor ship bias is. Yeah. So you made a comment in the previous answer about looking at the performance results of a strategy when it should lose. Yeah. So do you ever test with regime filtering or trying to switch the strategy off because I guess using this idea, first approach, which you talked about, you kind of know logically when a strategy should work and when it shouldn't. So is that lean nicely into regime filtering? I'm using regime filters with some strategies, but not with all of them. It again, depends on the nature of the strategy. For example, to me, it doesn't make sense to use trend strategies without regime filters. Why should I enter into the long trend positions if the overall market is falling like crazy and the same to the short side. So that's why I'm for example, using regime filters for trend strategies. I'm not using regime filters for for minor version struts that much. It depends again, but again, what I want from my trading solution is to be as diversified as possible. So that's why sometimes I don't use regime filters, even though with regime filters, the performance would be better, but I will get slightly different logic from from the strategy. So that's why sometimes regime filters are good, sometimes they are not. Yeah, I guess though, as we spoke a little bit earlier about the limitations of the length of the historical data, you also get a limited number of different types of regimes. Is that reduced the reliability of regime filtering? This is very good, very good question. I think it depends on what type of regime filters you are using, because again, if you are using very simple regime filters, those that for example, you can use on equities, something like let's say very, very well known regime filter is 200, they move in average on SMP or something like that. And you can reuse this kind of regime filter on crypto, for example, on Bitcoin or on total three crypto index. It doesn't matter that much to turn it through, but I'm pretty sure that this logic is very strong and you can use it even though there is not enough data in crypto, but I'm really not trying to be like super crazy with regime filters because there could be this issue that you mentioned that you can just get good results by pure luck and this is not something I would like to get. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Let's move on now to portfolio and diversification a little bit. It's come up a few times in the chat here. So first of all, you've kind of already touched on this a little bit already, but maybe might be good to just review it. What do you think? It's important to have a portfolio of strategies in crypto or I guess in any market, really. Okay. I think it depends on what you want to get from your trading. For example, if you want to maximize profits and you don't care about stability of your returns at all, for example, you can bet everything on one single trend strategy in crypto and maybe or even very likely you will get you will make the most money in this, let's say, bull market, if this bull market will continue. But if you want to get stability and you want to be prepared for almost anything in markets, you just have to spread a capital between many different approaches just for you to know that if the market will be involving and it will be somehow involving. We just don't know how you just have to have like many different trending trends, not trend, but trading strategies because then you are basically covered. My general approach is trading these all-weather portfolios, even on equities, on crypto, because that way you can make some money if the market will be, for example, highly volatile, but it will be moving basically sideways with mini version strategies or you can make money if the market will be moving up or down thanks to your friends strategies. And then the only phase that is really not good for us directional traders is basically sideways low volatility market. This is the market where you will lose money probably. This is what it is. So we have a question in the chat from Dallabor, apologies if I said your name incorrectly. This one is about diversification, but I like it because it is in the context of correlation. How do you diversify in crypto with everything so correlated? Yeah, this is a good question. It is also about the meaning of diversification. Of course, if I want to think about diversification in general, then I think that you should be allocated into crypto, but probably you should diversify into different assets. So this is, I would say, the highest level of diversification. If we get to crypto, you can of course diversify because you can just go over top 20 coins these days and go one by one and you can see that some of them made like today, let's say 5% another one 12% another one minus 6%. So yes, they are diversified wrong term, but if you are trading because it also depends on what type of strategies you are trading. I'm trading shorter term strategies like one day, two days, but also like weekly strategies where you are holding your position two, three weeks. And especially with these quicker struts, the diversification plays a big role because you never know when you will hit those outliers that will really push your equity much further. So yeah, diversification, I don't know, dogecoin or something like that the correlation would be pretty high. But if you are trading like portfolio in every strategy, then the diversification is pretty big. Now on the trading panel, I think it was two weeks ago, you made a comment which we didn't really dig into a lot at the time, but I thought it was interesting and I saved it for today. So you said something about you really went into, you know, in your crypto trading, you really went into oversimplification of strategies and more, I think you said crazy, but advanced techniques in the portfolio. Can you expand on that a little bit more? What exactly do you mean there? Yeah, what I mean by that, well, firstly, why I'm trying to oversimplify single trading strategy. The main reason is that I don't know if the strategy will be performing in the future and the more metrics the strategy will have or more conditions, the higher the probability that the strategy will fail in the future, that it was just overfitted strategy on few years in the past. So that's why I'm really trying to build a strategy that has one, two entry conditions, one regime filter and let's say one exit conditions, something like that, you know, some of my strategies have just one entry condition and one exit condition, really that simple, but their main logic is very strong and this is how I'm trying to build the strategies because as you said, Andrew, we just don't have enough data in crypto. So that's why the strategies really have to be, really have to be super simple, just to be at least somehow sure that they will be performing in the future. And by the advanced approaches within portfolio building, what I was thinking about was that you really have to think how you are building the portfolio because I can see traders that are like building many strategies and they are just putting them into the portfolio just for the purpose to have as many strategies in the portfolio as possible. To me, it's pure nonsense because that way, for example, you can be good for, I don't know, creating strategies, for example, and you will build 10 trend strategies and you will put them into the portfolio, but how much they are diversifying your overall trading results, not much, not much. That's why I'm trying to build or add every strategy to the portfolio only if it will have some diversified, you know, only if it is like diversified to the overall portfolio. If not, I will just keep it somewhere, but I won't use it for the portfolio building in general. So this is always something, that's why I can imagine that you build your very simple, I don't know, crypto strategy in one day, but the portfolio, the proper portfolio, you will be building many months maybe in a year and in fact, you are still working, maybe you are still working on your portfolio to be as good as possible. So this is how I'm thinking about it. Yeah, so how do you then determine if a strategy is contributing to the diversification of the portfolio? What are you looking at? Yeah, so firstly, basic logics, which means if the logics is the same or very similar to any other strategy that I already have in the portfolio, and then I'm using as probably everyone correlations, correlation coefficients, I'm looking when, especially draw, I'm looking at drawdowns, which means when the strategy is creating drawdown compared to similar strategy that I already have in the portfolio, and if the strategy is building the drawdown in different periods just by luck, or if it is by some characteristics that is in the strategy, if you know what I mean, really, for me, it is not about trying to push the performance as high as possible, but trying to push the stability as much as possible. And the only thing that you can basically control is drawdown, not performance because performance is more function of the trendiness and of the volatility of the market, but the drawdown is function of your portfolio or strategy building. Yeah, well said. I think one of the appeals, especially for beginner traders, is when they're building a strategy to make it look like a really nice, you know, straight line. I imagine in crypto, you can probably build ones that go exponential, right? Yeah, yeah, I mean, I have what you could have in it, but by the sense of it, you almost, you probably don't even look at the equity curves, right? Well, I'm looking at equity curves, but I'm not trying to build the best equity curve possible because again, I'm thinking about every single strategy as part of the portfolio. I could never imagine trading just one strategy, and I also think that it is big, big problem for many traders that they are trading one, two strategies because they just fall in love with them then, and they try to over optimize them, they try to overfitted them, they will try to make as much money with just one or two strategies instead of building more uncorrelated strategies in in broader portfolio, you know, this is, I think this is the biggest pain point of many traders that they are trying, they are trying to build the best possible one single strategy, which can be working. I can imagine that it can be working all the time because you have trend strategies when mini version strategies and breakout strategies and every strategy, every trading approach makes money just in some market phase, not in every market phase. So this is how traders should be thinking about it. And I think you had a very good point about about building strategies on the past because this is another huge trip that like no base or beginner traders are falling into that they are trying to be rich on the past that time, you know, they don't think about the market that way that future will be always very different compared to the past. It will, it will never be the same and you should have it always on your mind if you are building the strategy that past is really only the past and the future will be probably very different and probably worse. Yeah, okay. Well, we got some questions in the chat, which I want to get to in a minute, but just as an extension of what you were just saying, what other, I guess, mistakes do you see traders making when they're approaching algorithm crypto trading? Well, definitely overfitting its number, its number one problem of all, then they are building the strategy of one asset, especially in crypto. You can see it all the time. Everyone is selling those bots that made 100% in the last three years just because it was it is trading or it was trading solana that made like 100,000%. If you have such an exponential coin, then everything will be making money on it, you know, and this is really a huge threat that I can see all the time how people are falling to it. Another one, of course, is building strategies on like survivorship bias or on data that includes survivorship bias, which is very big, especially in crypto or in equities. For example, on communities, it is a little bit different. This is not such a big deal, but on equities and crypto, it is huge problem. Hinside bias is a huge problem, and then in general, I can also see that algorithm traders are making just mistakes in codes, you know, that they are not checking their codes well. Even I might quite a few of those mistakes in the past, and I even traded it unfortunately on live data, I really did, so everyone did it probably, but this is a big problem too, that we think that we got the code and we just let it trade and then we just lose. Yeah, okay, well, we've got a couple of questions here in the chat. So let's go first here with John. So this is more of a clarification one, and this actually came up when you were talking about regimes, I just didn't see it on the screen at the time, so John would like to confirm, so in a long regime, you'd limit momentum breakout trades to long only, but meme reversion and trending strategies are free to do their thing. Yeah, well, it depends. It depends. Some of our meme reversions, thoughts do have regime filters, because for example, the logic is in for regime filters, regime filters. For example, let's think about some correction, you know, you want to trade correction to a trend. Correction in general is trading correction in general is min reversion trading. Why shouldn't I use regime filter when I want to trade correction into trend, you know, so in this min reversion types of strategies, I'm using regime filter, which is basically one of the conditions of the strategy, but it really depends. It is not that simple that I would say min reversion without regime filter and trend strategies wait because I tried to combine as many different approaches as possible. Okay, thank you for that question from Antonio. Do you focus on meme reversion from a range expansion perspective? Minerversion from a range expansion. Yeah, well, if I understand the question correctly, then some of our strategies are using like range expansion condition for min reversion but again, it depends. I think this is very good question in general because what I think is one of those problems you were asking and what traders are making like mistakes when building struts is those indicators versus price action wars, you know, because to me, you can describe range expansion with indicator or with price action pattern. It doesn't matter, in fact, this is just the tool and how you describe it is up to you, but how you trade it, what you want to trade. This is this is like one step back that one should be always thinking about before building the strategy. But in general, range expansion, playing with range expansions for min reversion struts, breakouts struts is a good way to go, not just in crypto, but in any high level of title I said. Okay, here's a question from, oh my goodness, I don't know how to say this, it looks Croatian maybe, can you say that one? Swritten? Sorry for sputtering your name. Does your trading system analyze order books and do more complex decisions on positions or do you focus more on logic, the strategy logic and care less about exchange mechanisms like market orders? Yeah, I'm more concentrating on really general logics on higher data like daily, weekly, and so on, because you have to take, you really have to think about cost of trades, which is another big mistake traders are doing that they are not thinking about cost of trading, which is not only fees, but also slippage and so on. And yeah, the lower you want to go and the, for example here, order books, and this is really quick trading and I don't feel comfortable trading this kind of strategies on crypto because again, I think that especially doves very quick strategies will be changing the characteristics very quickly as smart money will be entering crypto markets and so on. So that's why I prefer like trading slower strategies because even on stocks or on communities, you can see that doves strategies if they are losing edge, the face of the edge losing can take even a year or so, but if you are trading one minutes to three minute strategies, I have seen those strategies that they were performing and in a day, two or a week, they were just going to zero very quickly. So that's why especially in our service, I want to have the stability pretty high. So that's why I'm really concentrating on this daily weekly or maybe 12 hour strategies. Okay, thanks, Pavel. Another question here from John. Are you trading CFDs or actual crypto or something else and why? We are trading futures on crypto and why there is biggest liquidity and lowest fees and basically this is the best market for us traders. So yeah, and it is also the simplest solution for trading. So there is not many reasons to trade differently if you can trade that way. For example, I know that in the US, you can't trade futures on crypto. So this is very different question than, but if you can, I think futures are the way to go. Yeah, okay. Now there was a question submitted on X to you from Sean. He says, I can't put this on the screen. I'll just read it. If you're a US trader who cannot trade crypto futures, would you trade actual coins, including smaller ones or just if if PTC, LTCN, eat like the biggest keeps lipid, transmission, yeah. Yeah, this is good question, but very hard to answer to tell you through because there is a problem with the universe in general. I'm not a big fan of choosing five, six, seven, eight or 10 coins and trade just them because again, you are getting into some kind of a hindsight biases, but if I would have to choose, I would trade probably the top 10 biggest coins with trend strategies. For example, because trend strategies have the highest average rate and that's why even fees and slippages on general crypto market is not such a big problem. Okay. Question here from Summer Squad. Welcome Summer Squad. What's the simplest system or method you would advise a beginner to start with that would work across commodities too? Yeah, that's okay. Good question. If I should choose the simplest system, I would choose something like Don Chian or Don Chian to tell you through, I still don't know how to pronounce it Don Chian. Some kind of Don Chian break out strategy like 30 days, 100 days or something like that and really stick to break out slash trend strategies type of approach. Probably the most robust one. And then a simple question here from Mr. C. Any reading recommendations for finding trading system is well of course my Twitter account. But yeah, no, I'm trying to share quite a lot of information, but if I if I would start building crypto trading strategies from the scratch now, I would really go over all books like really Larry Williams books, Linda Rashke books, those type of traders that were trading and writing books in times when commodities were really moving like crazy. And you can definitely take some kind of inspiration there, but you have to and you also have to add some books from for example, Nick Rage and so on just to get the feeling of what portfolio trading is because you just can't trade crypto without portfolio approach. I think this is too risky. Yeah, yeah, I think another good book it's probably worth looking at is Perry Kaufman's. I think it's called trading trading systems and methods or something like that, which was a it was an older book, but I think you might have updated it, but that's that's got amazing trading ideas in it. So I imagine a lot of those would work in crypto too. Definitely. Okay, here's another question from Mr. C. If you use Monte Carlo simulations with random data, parameter sensitivity testing and all the other robustness tests you mentioned is the system ready to go live for live trading. I don't know if I understand the question properly. If this is the only robustness testing for crypto, but for me, especially with the amount of data we have in crypto, this is not enough because really the robustness testing starts with how you build the strategies. You just can't build your strategies on data. I would say indicator first type of strategy building and just go over the general robustness testing that are very usual in traditional finances. I would say this is not enough because if you make Monte Carlo on five years, six years and two huge long trends, what can it what kind of information you get? The information is really the value of the information is pretty low. So that's why this is definitely not enough. You also, I think in crypto, especially in crypto, you already have to know how to build the strategies properly because yes, I'm repeating all the time that I'm building very simple strategies, but sometimes it is quite hard to build simple strategy that will be performing in the future too because it is you really have to understand the markets. This is this is the main idea. I think you really have to understand the market logic, the market dynamics, and if you do, then you can build profitable strategy on any type of market. Okay, we've got a final question here from John. Have you ever looked at a system of closing a portfolio is complete, set of trades at say 1% gain. This short circuits mean reversion multiple position trade sets. Yeah, not sure. It kind of goes against the trend following principles, so it doesn't it? Yeah, closing out for trades early, closing out early profits. Like in general, I'm not using profit targets at all. This could be an interesting question too because I made so many tests on equities, on communities, on crypto, and I almost always find if not better performing, then definitely more robust approach than using profit targets. And the same is valid for stoplos. In fact, too, you can manage the risk differently than with stoplos. So yeah, I'm not doing something like closing positions if my portfolio is plus 1% or so. I think you just don't you can't use the potential of crypto or of the asset that is moving. In fact, if you set some boundaries with let's say 1% 2% or so, I think this is discretionary type of thinking in general that is not profitable even with discretionary trading, but definitely not on algorithm trading or I haven't found this approach at least. Yeah, John clarifies reduces mean reversion drawdown in that case. But I think you answered the question. Sorry, did you have more? No, no, I'm maybe I just don't get the question how I should but yeah, I don't know if you understand it and you what's what's this question. No, I think you covered it pretty well. Yeah, thanks for the question, John. All right, we're just about to wrap up here in a moment, but first it's crystal ball time, Pavel. I'm not going to ask you about the price of Bitcoin next year. There's plenty of people who have guessed that and got it wrong. So, but there's a question here from summer first and then I'm going to ask you one about the future of crypto. Yeah, for summer, would ask do you think we're entering into ball cycle cycle on crypto assets with Ethereum Bitcoin moving near all time highs? Good question. Unfortunately, I don't know. I wish, I wish, but really I don't try to analyze the future of of crypto market that much, so really don't know. Yeah, okay, and then so my question is not really price based, but what do you think is the future of crypto? We're seeing, you know, talk about different types of regulation. Some countries are making a illegal. What do you think is going to happen in the space? Do you even care? Well, I do care. I do care because I used to be working in traditional finance in the past two. So I'm having quite a few contexts and I can see how it is evolving. I can see how even banks are interested in crypto. Why? Because they can see their profits. Of course, you know, because the margins, the fees are much higher with crypto than in traditional assets. So what I think that will be happening in the future is that there will be more and more regulatory clarity in the crypto space. And that's why more and more smart money and bigger funds will be entering this space. And that's why these inefficiencies and volatility will be getting lower and lower. Now I'm talking about like five years or so in my opinion. So what I would expect is that over the time, like in 10 years, five to 10 years crypto will be just another asset that will be like diversifier for your portfolio, but not this like huge opportunity that is right now. Yeah. All right, Pavo. Well, thank you very much for at chat today. It was really informative and we got a lot of great questions in the chat as well. So thank you very much for that. How can people learn more from you or maybe even get in contact with you? Yeah, thank you. Thank you, Andrew, for having me here. So let's just you can go to robaxio.com or to my personal Twitter slash pukkitsk pkyck. I can see you mentioned it here. Oh, it's great for that. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Or just write me, you know, write me. I'm on Twitter quite often. So I'm always happy to answer any question. Yeah. Excellent. And I'll put links to those in the description of the replay as well. So if people want to find those, because that's a difficult one to spell in Twitter. So yeah, so yeah, thanks again for your time today. We've got some comments in the chat, which I might just share here quickly. And then so see says thanks for the podcast. Summer said thanks for the great info. I'll have to rewatch as I missed out the beginning. And actually, John put a comment at the beginning, which I haven't put up on the screen, which I'm going to do now, because it was a good one. John said, I really appreciate Pueblo's approach of mixing trend, momentum breakout and reversion to mean strategies. So thank you, you explained a lot of that today. So yeah, thanks again for your time today, Pueblo. Any closing comments or thoughts before we finish up? Well, just think about rating crypto, because I think there are many risks, but there are many opportunities, huge rewards. And at the end of the day, it is about capital allocation, not if you should be trading, but how much? Yep, very well said and a nice way to end the show. So thanks again, thanks to everyone for joining us and we'll be back again. Oh, come to the trading panel. It's every week on what time is it? I always forget. 4pm. 4pm Eastern every Friday on all the better system trader channels and Pueblo comes along as well. So you'll see him there again, I'm showing the future. So thanks again, everyone for joining us and happy trading. Happy trading.