 Hello, everyone. Welcome to Trader's Post office hours for October 11th, 2024. Always pleasure to be here. My name is Tom Hartman, working for the marketing team here at Trader's Post. And I'm here as ever with Mike Krischenzen, CSO and CEO John Wage. How's it going? Doing well, Tom. How are you doing this week? I have been elbow deep in AI stuff. It's just been, I guess I just didn't realize that I wasn't using AI to the best of my abilities. It's crazy how many different ways you can use it. I mean, like I was telling you earlier, the applications are endless, but tell me what you've been working on this week. So I've been, I've scratched my head. You know how it is with new tools or what have you. When I was trying to build something that I needed to build, I couldn't build it properly. And then I just set it to myself, just give myself a night, build something completely out of the blue. Like that I don't need for retail trading at all. And then I learned everything that I need to learn in order to build a different app. And so what I'm hoping to go through later on in office hours is essentially building up a very crude and simple dashboard that will go through, look at news items, recent news items online, and then use AI in order to generate a sentiment analysis, and then trade futures contracts on the major indices, accordingly. So we'll see how that goes. And it should be fun. But my God, it was so much fun to to try and do. John, you're using, you've been using Cursor AI, right? Because you're the one who introduced you through it. Are you using it regularly? Yeah, my daily driver, I switched entirely to, I was using VS code. So it's an easy switch. But I guess it's been about a year now, but I just switched to VS code from sublime text. Yeah, which is funny to think about because you're on sublime for so long, I've been on VS code for like almost a decade now. And John gave VS code a run for about a year before he was like, oh no, cursor AI is way better. Had to convince me, I, the only reason I didn't use cursor AI is because it didn't have good WSL 2 support on Windows. So I could actually run on Linux environment, which is of course the only like true way to, you know, develop in a proper way on a Windows environment. And then they fixed it like a month and a half ago or two months ago. And now cursor is my daily driver as well. Yeah, before sublime text, I used text, I don't know if you guys ever heard of that one. Text, no pad, is that what you're using? No, text made. It was like a Mac only app that was like super popular for like, you know, or 2000s and 2010. And then I switched to sublime text. And I couldn't ever get off of sublime text because sublime text was just so fast. So I like just plain bare bones editors and tried several other editors that are like fully featured, but they're just so slow. I just can't stand when the mouse and clicks and the keyboard reaction is just so slow. That's what I hated about Eclipse. Eclipse is a giant, Eclipse software giant, terrible IDE written in Java. And prior to that though, and this will age me, I was on Dreamweaver. Before that, even before Dreamweaver, I was on home site. I don't know if you guys remember that. I didn't use home site. I started with Dreamweaver. I started with the notepad. I would literally edit things manually. And home site was acquired by macromedia. If I remember right, and then they kind of sunset it. And then I just got incorporated into macromedia Dreamweaver. Jonathan DS19 asked, did you pay for sublime? I did pay for sublime. I mean, the value you get is so cheap. Totally makes sense to pay for it. Oh, yeah, that was one of my number one purchases. And then there was like no reason not to do that. I tried Adam for a while. That wasn't. Yeah, I tried that one too. Yeah, I heard. And that one crazy was written by the CEO of GitHub before the Microsoft acquisition, which I thought I didn't know that. Cool. Interesting. The CEO and founder of GitHub was responsible for Adam. Well, cursor, what's great about it and why I want to show it on the show is that with a rudimentary knowledge of AI, and frankly, even if you don't know anything about coding, you can actually get crazy things done as long as you're okay with the fly bumping against the the window until it finds the exit. If you're one to do that, it'll actually explain to you what you don't understand so that you actually go and look it up, which has always been the shortcoming to me. I don't want to sit around reading a bunch of docs. Because if I tried the initial version of an app, and within 10 minutes, I don't have something that makes me feel, ooh, I'm gone. I'm going to look at the keys jingling somewhere else. But cursor is keys jingling everywhere. I feel like with cursor and I'm also using v0.dev just every day. The thing is unbelievable. I mean, I used to have to get advice from designers and stuff. And now I just have an AI tool that I can bounce ideas off with. It's never perfect. But you're not really looking for the perfect design. You're looking more for the inspiration. It's kind of like almost back of the napkin crann level drawing of it. But it's enough to get an idea of how the element should be placed and all the high-level details. And then I go and implement it with TL-1 CSS. It's been total game changer. Yeah, I love it. I'm also finding that we can improve a lot of how we use AI with more contextual information. So like I've been feeding a lot more of cursor AI context that it doesn't even have in the source code by just bringing in more markdown files that explain how things work. And that helps a lot too. Bringing that context in is obviously key. In fact, there was an article recently that was talking about the acquisition of case law by Thompson Reuters and why they paid $650 million for this technology. And the big part of it is that case law had figured out how to reduce the the number of hallucinations down to zero. And the key to the work that they did there was that they had basically what I would consider AI unit tests. All these evaluations that were made on each of the responses to make sure that the response was accurate. And it just got me thinking a lot about how we can sort of fine tune our AI environments. Context matters a great deal. And you really want to push it through a lot of tests to make sure that how it responses is accurate. So before we close out office hours, I did want to well, my plan was to run through actually developing just a quick dashboard in cursor AI for how you can send signals to straight us post for sentiment analysis. But we don't have time for that right now. I'll do a video for that and I'm posted on the channel. But what I would love to do is to show you the test that I did beforehand. Sure. I'll share my screen real quick here. All right. So the idea here was that I wanted a dashboard that essentially I used cursor AI to to create a next. The JS app. So I just ask it what to do and then step through and just click on the buttons to run or apply whatever it asks me to run and apply. I find obeying the rules or whatever AI tells me to do is very on-brand with the type of person that I am. I take very well to authority. So this works pretty well. So I go through there and then as it generates the app, I then talk to it and say, hey, I need you to do this. I need you to do that. So for example, as I was going through, this is cursor AI over here that we're seeing. And I had if I ever had errors, if I ever wanted to have new features or what have you, I would just tell cursor AI what I needed it to do. I would tell it either to look through the entire code base or certain files. Or I would use the composer to ask it to do certain things and then go through all the different files and fix it accordingly. And because it's a locally on my computer, it would update live. And so here on the left side, I have all the latest news or that I can easily access with an API. The thing is, I didn't know how I can access news items. But the AI, so I asked the system, the AI system, well, how can I access recent news? And it said, oh, well, you can just use, I think it was called news API, which I didn't know existed. And it's free. You can get an API key. And then it tells me how to set it up. I set it up in my environment variables. And then boom, next to you know, I have the list here. I told the AI how many I wanted to see that I wanted to be filtered specifically for news items that had to do with these indexes, these indices. And then I wanted a refresh button here in order to pull new news items. Then once that was set up, I wanted to have market sentiment on the right. And so I said, hey, come up with something for market sentiment. There was like all kinds of different versions. I went with this one. And I said, initially, I wanted to figure out a way of myself a figuring out what the sentiment was until I realized I could just have one AI help my other AI. I said, here's my open the I key, send all the headlines from the news items to to open the I have it to a sentiment analysis and send it back to me and then generate a score accordingly, which is then did. Once that score is then created, I then asked it to add input work and put the the webhook URL in for for trade-as-posed. So for trade-as-posed, we need for the strategy, we need to get the webhook URL here to send the signal to which I did. And then I paced it in and I said, hey, I want to be able to put the JSON payloads automatically. So I gave it in cursor, you can either do at web and then put a link. In this case, I put a link to the trade-as-posed doc. So I can just grab the link for the trade-as-posed doc for webhook and then toss that into here. If I wanted it to to reference it or if I know that I'm going to be reference it again and again, I don't want to have to pull that information at each time. In composer, I could go ahead and oh, second here. Under notes, I created a note where trade-as-posed docs and I just copied and pasted the doc information here so that when I am talking to the chat, I could always just refer to I could just refer to trade-as-posed docs. And that way it knows the format on one avenue. It's a perfect no, but it's good enough in order to get me where I need to go. And so what I wanted to do was to automatically set the the JSON payloads here and to change the actions according to if it's bullish bearish or neutral and to have different notes. And then here I added a send button. So if I send let's say this and queue contract, it'll send over, it'll confirm that it's been sent. And if I go to the trade-as-posed logs, I'll be able to see that that was just sent in right now. That's crazy. And these are buttons I'd put on the the chart just for the sake of our conversation here. But I could easily have asked it to create a cron job or whatever vague terms I want to use to say automatically do this once a day so that at the beginning of the day or the beginning of the trading session it will then go ahead and open up the contract. Yeah, this is really cool. It kind of makes me wonder if you could, since we're on the subject of market sentiment, I would just crawl the fear and greed index on what is that on scene then? I would just look at the moon cycle and just full moon. You go full moon. Always full, baby. So yeah, go short and extreme greed and go long and extreme fear. Effectively that sort of counterintuitive approach, but the or contrarian approach rather, that's the right word for it. But I mean, even just crawling that page and like setting up the web hook that way, that would work as well. What I'm impressed with a couple of things here. Like one is I think this exemplifies better how diverse you can get with your signal source to send a trader's post. We're not just limited to trading view or transpiter. I've seen people set up web hooks from spreadsheets from your new code here in cursor AI. I've seen it done in Zapier triggers. There's a lot of really cool ways. Oh, and I just this just this week, I just finished up all the work to get web hooks set up properly in empty five, a meditator five. So there's just so many different ways to make your integration work. However you want to automate things like it's the because it's a web hook, it's really kind of a universal adapter to whatever communication platform you want to use. But I love this use of AI as well. I was going to highlight that when I was working for a subsidiary of S&P Global, I built a whole news API way before AI. And what have wished that I had some of the resources that you just put together there because I was doing all kinds of stuff the long and hard way and you built this thing into like a week. Related when you built in two hours. Yeah, yeah, that just makes me feel sad. I spent six months on an API. So remember early on in the early days of traders will remember a customer made like a custom desktop app. And it was a very simple like trading app like a very like large buy green button and a red cell button. And he would have trading view up on half the screen. And then there's other app on the other. And it just made it really simple to to basically buy and sell with with manual without any other other noise. Yeah, yeah, all his configurations preset. So we didn't have to worry about position size or calculating quantities. It just all did it automatically added the stop losses and take profits. And all he had to worry about was just pressing the button. Where's your bike that coin button by the way? Yeah, I know. I haven't done it yet. But I think I still think it's a good idea. I want to like hook up. I have this this single button. I want to figure out how to hack that. You know, and I could just like paint on by another $5 or the Bitcoin. Well, now everybody thinks they know who's Satoshi Nakamoto is. So we need a little sound clip from him. And he'll just say some sound bite every time you hit it. What I want to try is to do the I have a time tracker on my computer that tracks everything that I do. And I would love to be able to just use this. And they are used to something like this. And I think I probably do that. That if I'm particularly productive that it's rewarded by buying a certain amount of Bitcoin or whatever. I just love the idea of sitting on my computer. And as I'm working, it goes thing and it purchases some shares of Tesla or whatever. And I get a message that you were so productive today. Here you go. You get two shares of a Tesla. And when I see it's use cases like that that I find the most entertaining for me that go beyond what people might normally use in trading due or transpire and stuff like that.