 I'm going to show you how to actually build a trading bot here. So you don't get liquidated like these guys just got liquidated. Look at this 812k in liquidation, 378k, 1 million, 1.1 million. And the worst part about this is that these are all hand traders. These are all traders like you and I that are trading with their emotions. And I can tell because we just had all of these short liquidations. Or long liquidations actually we've had all these long liquidations this morning 8 to 12 million I think. This one was 3.34.74. 3 million anyways. I'm going to show you step by step how to actually build a trading bot. And you know I've been doing this for a long time and I have a ton of videos showing the entire process but I wanted to make one video and put it all together. Now don't be like me who is DeGEN and just ran directly to building the bot. There's actually a process that I've created that now I follow to ensure that I don't do the wrong thing which is start today and build the bot right away. No you want to see does that bot actually work? Does it actually work on past data? Now we're back testing which involves coding and Python to see if the strategy that you're about to build into this bot which is step 3 actually works in the past. Now it's not guaranteed to work in the future if it worked in the past but it's much more likely. So we're going to do a lot of back testing and then build out the bot here at the end. And I literally show you every single step of the way. So we also built this together near the end of the training and this is a notion. So I'll just put this in the description below. It's the RBI process something that I'm going to start using here. We'll see how much it sticks but it's just showing me all these things that I was going through during this training and you know I make sure to implement this, make sure the risk control is implemented, how are we entering and make sure the stop losses are this and you know this is how we optimize and this is where we research. So just a little notion I'm going to refine but I'll make sure there's a link for that somewhere on the website. I just put it at the bottom of the website so there should be a link in the description here. And we just scroll down here. These are just testimonials. I'll put it right here. I'll put the link around here, the notion link. Yeah, I'll just replace LinkedIn with notion or something like that. But yeah, I'm going to show you how to actually do this and actually build a bot but it there's a third it's the third step. Just remember that. Remember this RBI research back test and then implement. You don't want to run right into the bot. You want to make sure that you have a solid strategy that you researched and then practice but I'll tell you everything here. Go ahead and just tap that like button and let's jump in. Today we are building some breakout bots for the Bitcoin or crypto bull run in general. So I'm not claiming that it's here or it's going to stay like this forever but there are multiple regimes in each market. Jim Simon said there's eight regimes in each market. So let's go ahead and build a breakout bot for a regime assuming that it's going upwards. I'm not calling that this is going upwards. I'm just building for a regime and if we have a bot for each and every regime then we can have machine learning decide when to run each bot. Okay, so does that make sense? So how many Jim Simon's? Jim Simon says there are eight regimes in each market which are those regimes and what type of strategies do we run in each regime? Okay, so today we're going to be building breakout bots and those would be typically good for trending bull market regimes. In my opinion, okay, you can see trend following strategies for a bull market, bull market, bear market, range brown market, high volatility market, low volatility market, economic boom, economic recession and crisis market. Okay, so let's see here. I'm going to take these notes down because Jim Simon's founder of Renaissance technology has often discussed the ideas of exhibiting different regimes. While Simon has not explicitly listed these regimes in a public sources, the general concept can be applied based on common market behavior patterns. Here's an interpretation of the possible regimes and types of strategies that can be effective in each bull market, a bear market, those are the easy ones, right? Range brown market up and down, high volatility market. So okay, we could use the VIX. Yeah, that's a good idea there, actually. I'm going to just go and note all of these down because every single day I build new stuff and my name is Moondab, I believe codes are great equalizer. That's why I share all this information here. On stream for free, I'm going to make a note called regimes, market regimes here, market regimes, Jim Simon's, okay, let's paste it in there. These are the market regimes that we're working with. We're going to go ahead and start, let's say assume it's a bull market. I don't predict the markets. I just build, I'll go for them. So I'm not saying this is a bull market. Just here, just here existed. Assume it's a bull market. What type of trading systems should should should we build? Wishy, what's up, bro? I'm back. I'm back. I'm back to the island. So it's good to be here. I'm happy to be back. I'm not up earlier. I'm up later. No, I'm up at the same time. I just stay up, get up at the same time. No matter where I'm at. I'm back on the island. Yes, yes. Okay, we have our new launches here being posted over here in the bottom right. We have my sniper over here. We have all the new launches in text form here are the top volumes in text form. Here are the top orders, the biggest orders on Binance. And these are the huge orders. These are liquidations. And these are the huge liquidations. Again, this is my sniper. And this is looking at the actual images of the snipers. So this sniper is sniping meme tokens. So I thought, hey, why not show the actual images so we can scroll through them and see if there's any alpha there. I'm live here on Twitch. If you have any questions, comments or anything, much love to everybody. In a bull market where the general trend is upward trading systems should focus on capturing upward momentum and maximizing gains. Here are some types of trading systems that are well suited for a bull market trend trading trend following systems moving averages utilize utilized moving averages such as the simple moving average exponential moving average to identify the following trend common strategies include okay, the golden cross price above moving average momentum trading relevance strength rate of change breakout strategies. That's what we're going to be doing today. Price breakout buying when the price breaks above a significant resistance level or previous high volume confirmation combining the price breakouts with increased trading volume to confirm the strength of the trend. Okay. Let's go ahead and say we are going to build off the above. Give me 10 great great ideas for building a breakout system. I've got a couple as well. So I just want to get those going while that is going. I want to go look through the top volume today because as wishy from Twitch mentioned I just got up. I just got my workout done and this is my real life. So I share my real life here with you because nobody shared it with me. The stuff was super hard to learn. So I just share it all and including that comes my scanning of the market for today. These are all the top volume tokens on Solana in the last hour. So I like to scroll through them and just see if there's anything that makes me cackle. American coin. Fish and chips been around for a while. As a while is like a week two weeks. Okay. It looks like we're done here. Let me go back. I'm going to move. Be moving back and forth. I'm not trying to waste any time today. I'm sorry. Billion effective breakout trade. So I system involves a combination of technical indicators risk management and entry exit rules to ensure you can capitalize on significant price movements. Here are 10 great great ideas for building a risk management or breakout system. For any in slip right there. We got to worry about risk management number one. Of course. Good thing I built a lot of this code already. So here's some 10 ideas for breakout strategies breakout strategies breakout strats. Okay. So let's go ahead and see what they are. Multi multi time frame analysis concept use higher time frames such as daily or weekly to identify major resistance levels and confirm breakouts on lower time frames. Okay. Yeah. I think that's where we're headed. But we'll see implementation a breakout of four hour chart that aligns with a resistance level from the daily chart. Has a higher probability of success. Volume weighted breakouts combined price breakouts with volume indicators such as the volume weighted average price the VWAP. Okay. That could be a good idea. Could be a good idea. Throw the 7777 in the chat if you're here live today. Throw the 7777 in the chat. Every single day we are here live volume weighted breakout. Okay. Bollinger band squeeze use a Bollinger bands to identify periods of low volatility squeezes followed by breakout. Okay. Relic is strength candlestick pattern confirmation ATR base stop loss and take profit. I think we'll set our stops with the ATR. Yeah. That's a good idea. So just coming up with our own little idea based off of these ideas. Let's go ahead and just start writing them out here. So what we're going to do is we're going to look for our our strat or my strat my strat. My strat. No, your strat. Sorry. Got to build your own strat dude. Okay. So I'm thinking like, okay, let's look at look at the daily breakout or daily resistance. So just something baby, baby resistance. Look at the daily resistance and then watch the one hour breakout on closed of a one hour breakout place orders between that the resistance and the breakout point. Just going to do a little baby baby baby to get started. Make sure everything's connected. We're all good live. Okay. And then we're going to look at resistance. Okay. And then we're going to put the ATR as these stop loss. Okay. Let's do that. Let's see that. Let's see if it works. And I could probably just build a back test right now. So what I'm going to do here is I need to go ahead and grab my visual studio code. So if you don't know how to code, just learn bro. I'm sorry. Just learn. I'll show you how to code here on my channel every single day. I'm here live. So don't you worry, doc. I'm here with you every single day. I need to get a secret key going on in here. So we got this data file here or not data file, but this visual studio code that has a bunch of the bunch of good stuff here for hyper liquid. Let's say exchange I'm going to be using here today. So honestly the stream might be a little shaky, but we'll see. I gotta get a don't share config up in here. As you can see, it's not. Doesn't have mine right now. So I'm going to say don't share config here.py. And then I'm going to make a secret secret. This is going to be my literal private key. So be careful with this one. I'm going to make it like this. It's going to be my private key on hyper liquid. I got to give my private key. So it is what it is. I got to get it. Okay. So let me go get my private key. This is how it's said, though. If you are wondering, don't share config private key. I'm going to say secret equals secret to make it. So I don't show my key. Okay. That's all. It's secret equals secret. That's all. Okay. You know what it is now. Okay. Perfect. So this market. This is a market maker, but market maker has all of my functions. So that's all I need. So I just need to jump on over to hyper liquid here and get on to get my key. Essentially, essentially be essentially what I got to do. Okay. Sweet. I got it. Well, not yet. Not yet. But I need to put it in here. So I'm going to take this off screen real quick. Just so I don't share my key. Don't share your key with anybody. Do not even me. Even if I ask you in the DMs or anything like that, it's not me. It's not me. It's never me. All right. Just be careful out there. I hate seeing people get wrecked. I hate seeing people get wrecked by this stuff. Let's see. What's my password? Dang. I don't know my password. Do I ever know my password? No, I don't. All right. I'm getting my private key right now and it's sketched because I have to put it on the screen. And then I'm not going to put it on the screen. I'm sorry. Okay. I got it. So let's go ahead here. Add. Done here. Okay. Perfect. Perfect. We good still on the stream. Looks like we have bad signal. But hey, that's how it's going to be today. It is what it is. I don't make the rules. Dude, okay. You can see the key is there now. So let's go back to the market maker because I actually two nine looks how it has everything as well. So how what are we going to do here? We're going to build a big breakout bot. Okay. That's great. I know I have something here that VWAP. Let's look it through some of these files here. We've built something similar here. This data from hyper liquid is interesting. Let's see how much data we can get. Should put data into the data file here. And I'm going to put it at three minutes. Let's go ahead and run it. It's going to take a while. Pouching data. Okay. So it's going to fetch data here. I just want to see if this concept is semi good. So let's do that. Yeah, yeah, let's do that. Let's go ahead and see if we can get a quick back to that. So that's getting a bunch of data for us, which is great. Look at resistance on the one day on the one day. Let's go ahead and see if we can just get a back to it's going while this is getting all the data for us. Because this is going to be on a three minute. But that's not going to be good actually. It's not what we want. We want the one hour we want one hour data. So I'm going to pull this. And I don't want with a whiff is an outlier. So I don't want with I want to get something more just regular. Because all the tokens available. Okay. So we have all these options here. Pepe with K-bunk. Does. All right. I think that's a good way to do this is I think I have all of the connections already to get connected for the trade. Yeah, I absolutely do because I have bots running. So I know all everything works with the trading side. The bot is not the hard part. The bot is not the hard part. I want to test some of these breakouts. But the tricky part is we're going to be building a scanner here. So let's see if we have a scanner. We got the SMA, the LR with skew longer, VW, bento, market maker, break, market maker, nice folks. Maybe we have a scanner in here. Breakout. Get position, supply and demand zones, calculate, calculate VWAP, get over high low close, adjust leverage, just signals. Okay. One thing we do need for sure is the we need the one day. We need that first. Let's get that. It's not been around that long. So 5,000 should be fine. Okay. So it's been saved to that. Okay. And then we want to get the one hour. Perfect. So we got the one hour data. Yep. From 1222. Perfect. Perfect. Okay. So we got the one hour data and the we got the one hour and the one day data. So we're good. 528 528 BT breakout dot p y. Okay. So all right. I haven't explained this yet. So I'm going to explain the way I automate my trading is this. This took me a really long time to figure out because when I first got an automated trading, I wanted to go build bots immediately. So I went to I. Now if you know a process, if you just jump to the third point, you're going to get wrecked. Okay. So I got wrecked. All right. Cool. When I first started building bots, I jumped right to bot building bots. That's not how you do it. That's not the good way to do it. You got a research strategy. Spend your time in the R and the B RBI system. It took me three and a half years to really dial in and make sure I have something I can just really follow every single day. So I'm glad to share here with you instead of trying to build a bot immediately. You know, take a breath. Markets are never going to go anywhere. You're not too late. You're here at the perfect time. Okay. Now that you know that, take a breath. And we're going to stick with the R and the B for most of the time. Most of the time in Algotrain is R and B. It's researching it's studying it's finding new alpha. And then seeing if that alpha is actually alpha. You research strategies by reading papers on Google scholar. You research strategies by watching videos, reading books. There's so many books on trading out there. And there's nothing new in trading. It's all there. It's all out in the open for you. It's all there. It's all in the world. You can't copy somebody's strategy, but you can learn from other people and their strategies and piece it in with your strategy and come up with your own edge that you keep close to your chest. I don't share strategies here. I don't share profits here. I don't share money things here. This is not an easy game. So if you're coming for a quick win, just bounce, just bounce now because you're going to get people like me that are vicious every single day. I'm here every single day. I'm not going to stop. I'm never going to stop you. The goalpost keeps getting further and further. That's the thing is you put big goals in the mind and the mind goes get some and then what happens next. Oh, now the goal is bigger. Okay. So that's happened like 42 times already in this process on this stream, on this YouTube channel, I've shown you absolutely everything and I'm going to keep showing you everything, but I'm not going to show you strategies that are just plug and play. I don't know. Maybe sometimes I will drop things on accident. Like today, I don't know. We haven't done this yet. So the process of automating your trading is research strategies then back test. So I just kind of researched the strategy. I've been wanting to build the simple back test here for a while and we'll see if it works and then if it works, then we can build a scanner all that. Okay. That's the process to automate your trading. So now you know the process of automate your trading. I'm just going to do it. Okay. So this is the simple strat just to show you how how this process works and what's great about this process is if it doesn't work, then we never go to that part. We never go to implement into bots and that's fine. So this is a strat. Okay. And now we have AI. So this is super chill. This is my strategy above is my strategy. Please use back testing dot py in order to back test it. It is a little tricky because it will need to pull in the daily data to see the points of resistance. Rises. Dance in the past. In order to know when a breakout is confirmed. If on the hourly the price breaks out, breaks out, then we will go ahead and long place a bit and place a bit between the resistance price and the one hour, one hour breakout. Right. I'll bar break out close. Close bar. Here's the here is the daily data path. Here is the hourly data path. This is what the data looks like for both of the data. Okay. Let's go get the data from both of them. Break out. Okay. Data. What data do we get? We got the 15 minute, no, the one hour, yes. We got the one hour in the one day. So this is what it looks like. Okay. Okay. This is the daily path. Okay. How are we path? Okay. This is the hourly path. I'll be path. Okay. All right. Sick. Let's see what you can do and then show just, you know, it'll help us out a little bit. Get the format. Right. At least what did we put this close? We put it at 528 back test. Break out. Okay. Just want to do this simple breakout strategy. Do you want to install the recommended rainbow CSV? Yes. Because you've been freaking on my head for months now. You've been on my head for months now about this thing. So I'm just going to let you have it. Okay. Boom. Boom. Now let's see what GPT has done. Oh man. What is going on? It ran it for us? Oh, and then we have the ATR. I forgot about that. Okay. So this is the daily data. This is the hourly data. We're making programs here. ATR period. Okay. Self-ATR daily resistance is self dot resistance. But what is the resistance? Be self dot resist. ATR. Okay. Self data dot resist. Does it have resistance? And they're already going to be. I'm a genius, dude. I'm a genius. Look at this. I put that into the data already. I'm a genius, dog. Like, I'm like Kanye. I'm like Kanye. I'm like Kanye. I already put it. I don't have open high low closed volume data. No. I have open high low closed volume support resistance data. That's OHLCVSR. That's insane, dog. That's insane. Moondab from the moon dead from earlier. Moondab he's on one. He's on one from earlier. That's crazy, dude. All right. This isn't going to work right out the back. But that's okay. Back trader. I don't want to use back trader, dog. Please use back testing instead of back trader. I'm a genius, but GBT4 and a genius. So it is what it is. Okay. That's pretty dope. I just went, we went and got coffee in the time. This did it. Okay. So breakout strategy. You can see it brings in the daily and the hourly path. Okay. See how this does now. Let's see if we can get it going. I know it's a little harder to do it with multiple data sources. It's a tricky part, but that's okay. We figured out. So you can see here it brings in the hourly data and the daily data. Okay. Time stamp date. Perfect. Let's see what happens. Resist. Okay. Do they merge the data? Infer date is deprecated. Key error resistance. Okay. Remember, uh, well, not that necessarily. Let's see. See what this data is looking like. That day looks Gucci. I know FS trend was talking about having two different things here. But we'll see. This is what the data, this is what the data looks like. Okay. Why they put this goofy color stuff on my stuff? See? I asked for that. I guess I did. Okay. Let's run it. If here's resist column may not have been properly correctly loaded or accessed in the script, let's ensure that the data is properly loaded and columns are correctly referenced. Here's the revised script with added checks to handle potential issues and ensure the data is properly processed. Okay. ATR period. Okay. This looks Gucci. I mean, but it's probably not going to work. We'll see. We'll keep working on it though. We'll just keep pulling the circles. I like the ones circles until we figured out it's fun. It's fun to me. It's like a game. So that you're here. Be you're going to see every single piece of code every single step of the way. Always have forever my guy. Okay. What's a new error? Resist is still not coming in. Okay. Key error. So if we look at here, resist 3812. Okay. Line 36, F fill, resist. Okay. Why is it say that? Why are we merging data? Merge data, timestamp? Merge data. Merge data is hourly data and daily data. I don't think we I don't think we can merge data because one is on the hourly and one is on the daily. I still get this error BTW. BTW still get this error. I see resist there on both of them. Since we cannot merge the data directly due to different timeframes, we need to ensure we use the daily data within the hourly strategy correctly. The strategy will use the daily resistance levels dynamically during the back test without merging the data. Here's how to approach the back test P. What? There it is. Okay. Great. So it looks like we got a little bit further open high low closed resistance pandas day frame. It's open high low closed volume. Data must be pandas with open high low. Okay. So it got closer here. I just need to change the I need to lower case some. I believe lower case the columns because they're lower case on mine. So I need to specify here that they're lower case. So you can see open high low rename. We got to name it to the format that they want. I don't make the rules they do. All right. So let's go ahead here and see what we can do. By the way, if this is too fast for you, I'm sorry, but every single day I go ahead and I show all of this here live. So you can see this is not a good strategy. So return is negative 20%. Exposure time 37%. It only traded one time though. So I think this is not correct. Because it entered where did it enter it? Dang. I feel like it should have entered around here. Because this is the daily. Not necessarily the daily, but it could be the hourly. Yes, the daily. No, it's the hourly. This is the hourly. I'm going to say something. I'm going to say this. I'm going to say this. I find this one hard to believe. Because I feel like it's happened so many times where it breaks the daily. Yeah, it's definitely broken. So I got to just look through this backtask and let's go ahead and run it just a little bit. Just the tip. Just the tip. Let's go ahead and also give it this step. These data here. These data. Okay. I think we need to I think oh snap. I think we need to debug this a bit because it shows only one trade. But you can see from the chart that there have been multiple times that the daily resistance has been broken. And then the hourly closes above that resistance. So having one trade does not seem likely. Please put any debug statements in needed. And I will send them back so we can figure out what is going on. Okay, let's go ahead and I want to finish just growing through these. These are the top volume and the Solano one hour. So I'd like to keep an eye on them because everybody's trading on Solano right now. Well, you know, I don't know maybe maybe the market shifted a bit, but you know, I'm still I'm still sticking with Solano for now. I know there's been some like pullback I can tell because my sniper is down to 412 and it was higher much higher. You know, it's pretty obvious and that's why I spend my time doing this is because I'm in tune, you know. So I scroll through the one hours. Looks like we're done here. So I'll go back to that later. Let's go ahead and see what they did to debug the issue will add some debug statements to the strategy to log key points such as daily resistance. The current hourly close price and when breakout condition is met will also log when a place is traded place. Perfect. So remember it's research backdestin then implement. So we're back testing right now this strategy. This is exactly what I want to see. I want to see all the trades perfect. Okay. Well, there's only one trade, but that's the problem. The ATR maybe maybe that's it. Maybe the ATR is based off the wrong thing. Yeah, that could be it. Okay, let's go ahead and see here. Let's give it all the all the trades and stuff. Okay. Well, that's not all of them, but you can see the daily resistance is 4.5. Oh, okay. That's because I see what happened. So, um, well, 525 is just a couple days ago. So, 459 is up here. Holy smokes. It's not up there. 459 459. Where's that 459 even it? Also, also here is the full DF for daily. So you can see all the resistance points. Okay, let's go ahead and try to give it all that data. I know it's going to be a F ton, but let's see what happens, you know. It's not going to be that much. I'm over here live on Twitch. So if you have any questions or anything, yo, Mundo, if I think you could improve your interaction with GPT instead of sending new messages, try to edit the previous message with the corrections chat GPT will forget what you've done in the previous messages. If you keep extending the chat yo, addictive. I appreciate you dude. That is that's some alpha there. Thank you. Appreciate you so, so much. We're live here on Twitch, answering all questions on Twitch. Sorry, too. We're not over there today. We're not over on the tube today. Much love, but come on over to the dark side and you get all your questions answered and I will reply to you every time you say anything, dude. So I appreciate you being here on the Twitch side. Twitch side is the dark side. The dark side is where you want to be, dude. So let's go ahead and see here the debug output indicates that the daily resistance level remains the same throughout the period under consideration point 4.59 and the hourly close price never exceeds this resistance level, which is why no trades are being placed. Yeah. Let's add more debug statements here. Okay. Here's an updated script with additional debug and verification. What are we debugging? Let's add more debug statements to confirm when the strategy detects a breakout and attempts to place an order. Also, let's confirm. Okay. So I'm going to go ahead and raw dog this just a little bit and we're going to go ahead in there and see what the data is looking like because that might be the wrong approach to this because there are those wicks, those wicks. You know? Okay. Boom. All right. It's the same thing though because we didn't change anything and that's exactly expected. So daily resistance time 459. Let's go look at that data here one day. Okay. Resistance here. So this is the resistance. It's always 4.59 since the day it started. That's why that's why there's no trades. So blood. I think my supporter resistance things have up. I remember what I was saying. I'm so smart. I'm not. I'm not. Okay. This is who I was waiting for. This is FS trend is up in the house. He says I'm not sure how to do the multi-time frame back test without using back trader. Make sure your candles are forming and not for filling or wicks sale due to my data source not having the current forming candles. It only had complete candles. I had to create the forming higher time frame candles using resample after splicing and the lower time frame rose since the cutoff. I if I was working with the five minute candles and hourly it was the past 15 hours I need to add three five minute candles to the one hour. And if the open high low closed volume data was based upon the start time, I need to change how resampling worked to create forming candles. Okay. So you weren't able to do this with back testing. Not P wireless, what you're saying? You weren't able to get double double data sources in. I see I kind of see your problem. So 200 hours. I love. Okay. Look at this hourly because it did the same thing be that's the problem. Okay. So in reality support and resistance should be only past data. So this being at 4836, see our data was broken. So let's go fix our data. See broken data is F'd up. Trent, appreciate, appreciate the input, bro. And I'm kind of confused if your problem was on the forming candles, like trying to catch the intro candle. Or if you just never were able to get back testing.py to work or two data sources. That's what I'd be really curious about. Because we got we got good engineers in here like Fs Trent much better than me been around much longer than me. And you know, I'm just here. I'm just here learning. I'm here just learning. I'm here along the way. Everything I learn I put into the bootcamp, the boot camps where I teach you how to automate your trading step by step. I'm not the best in the world, but I've been for three and a half years. So if you're new, I'm probably ahead of you and I can get you up to speed with me at least. You can attack this industry with me. You can see what everybody else has to say about it. I don't need to sell you on this. This isn't my business. It's just a place because I get the question over and over again. Where do I start? You can start on my YouTube or if you want me to hold your hand in the bootcamp, I can hold your hand in the bootcamp to get you up to speed with me. And there's 100% money back guarantee always, always, always, always. So I'm going to go ahead and fix my data source first because that thing is f up b. So what are we doing here? We're going to open high low closed volume two. Okay, let's go get it. Get data. Okay, when do we go to the process data df? Okay. Okay, so here. Okay, I'm going to say this. Chat GPD. Okay. Above is my function to turn data into our to process open high low closed volume data. But there is an error. It sets all the support and resistance to the same amount. But in reality, it should only look at past data in order to pick the the support and resistance. So so for example, line one 100 should only look at line one to 100 in order to pick the support and resistance. Line 40 should only look at line one through 42 pick the support. And resistance line 400 should only look at line one through 40 to pick the support and resistance. And so on. You can see the full data and the error and the error below. Please update the above code to fix that. Okay. Let's go ahead and show it the error because we just have a broken data source. Loki. Midkey. Hi, key. I usually don't use this data source. But as you know, if you've been here for a while, my other data source went down, not down, but it changed. It changed things. And it also doesn't have access to a lot of these tokens. So it is what it is. FSTRIP from Twitch says, I think so. That my biggest lesson was to debug print out the multi-time frame open high low closed volume so I knew my candles data was that one of these. So sorry, just a little clarification. So do you think that you're not able to do double double data for back to seeing that. I agree. It's better than back trader, but you know, whatever it takes to get the job done. Data snapshot. Okay. Let's see to update your process data to DF function so that calculates the supporting resistance for each row by only looking at the past data up to that row you can use rolling. That's exactly what I want my dog. What was I doing before? I don't know. Let's go ahead and check it out. Let's go see what your boy was doing because your boy was tripping. Your boy was tripping on that one. Yes, he was. My bad. My bad. Min Max. Yeah. Carone. She's what a little, what a little air that can change everything. I built this on the fly one time. I thought I was a fly fly guy, but I'm not. I'm just a new with my new tube. My new tube is chat GBT. Hey, it is what it is. Be still not. Okay. DF like. Okay. Let's see. I mean, how should I do this? I'm going to do this. I'm going to put it here. Not deleting above tell below is confirmed. Work in. To do. To do. That's a to do for sure. Okay. Let's go ahead. Run it again. Let's get the data. Okay. Let's go get that our data. Yeah. Boom. It's fetching the data. Okay. Now it's got it. Let's check it out. See is one hour. 4.8. 36. That doesn't make sense to me. This almost looks good be. This almost looks good other than the first line. How is it for $4? It should only be based on the previous lines. Wait. So I guess that's the question though. Snapshot data. What SMA do we want? Yeah. I think we should pass in time period. So we can pick how long to do the rolling. Where is this even rolling at the calculate supporting resistance expanding that min shift one. Rolling average or not the rolling the rolling resistance and support. So for example when we pass in 20 it will look at the last 20 bars by default. We will use 20 but can pass in anything. Okay. So warm says that. Chatgbds sent him right to a back trader. So maybe we'll use back trader this fine. I want to get the functionality done and I can do some of the more of this back testing on my own time as well. Nice. It's kind of what I'm thinking as well. I don't want to spend too much time on this trend. So you know that's another way of back testing kind of sketcher but is what it is. Minimum period shift rolling time period. Okay. Let's go ahead and go back to nice funks here and paste in that. Okay. So the default is going to be 20 time periods. So let's see I might have to change this. I don't think so because we put a default in there. Okay nice. Let's go ahead and look at that data now. All right now it's looking good. So it's going to be looking at the 20 day resistance. So what do we do here though? It's a question. Data. Okay. Open high low closed snapshot. We can put in time. Doesn't matter what we put in here. Well does matter. It absolutely matters but what do we want to trade this off of 50 days, 20 days. I'm just going to do 20 days. It's Gucci proud. It's now I put 20 in there. So let's just stick with it. Okay one day. I'm not going to spend more than an hour on this. Yo what up. Hello. Z is Z2. What up bro. So we're over here on the twitch side. Twitch side is the dark side. The dark side is the right side. The right side is over here because you know I can't and there's too many people now. There's too many people coming up in these vids. So I'm you know I'm not on YouTube anymore. I'm on YouTube. I'm streaming. You can see it. You can see it all. It's all here. I still believe closed grade labs. I'm still going to be here every day. I'm still going to show you everything. Don't worry do but if you want to talk if you want to chat if you have something good to say you have a question or anything like that. Click that link in the description and go to the twitch side dog because the twitch side is the right side. I'm actually curious when did I jump on the twitch big fan sir. Yo thank you bro. I'm a big fan of you for being here and passing the good love man. Thank you. I appreciate you so so much. That's dope. It's really dope. It's dope that you're here. I'm glad you're here. Much love to you. Much love to you. I need to figure out when did I switch the twitch questions. When did I start streaming on twitch? That's the question. I need to know that. I need to know that and I can't remember when but I'll be curious. Anybody remembers? I need exact date. I guess I can look through my YouTube videos but let's go ahead here and get the 5000 or the 5000 days which is not going to be 5000 days but you can see now now this is working. Look at the resistance and support. Now we got a good data source. Here we go. Here's the daily. Here's the hourly. Back to the back testing. Back to the back testing. We fixed the data now. So please give me the back test to the strategy. We were talking about earlier using back testing.py.lse. It's memory. See how it does. See if it can just pick it up. I don't know. We'll see. We'll see. Let's go 528 back test. Okay. She's thinking over there. What time is it? 906? Okay. See if there's what's going on over here. BTC down a little bit. It's hard to look but this is how the automated trading step-by-step. It's hard to look at the trend when you're looking at the 15 minutes. So for me at least I don't trade that like that. So I'll trade by hand and the speeding you up by going up 15 minutes is just going to get you wrecked. Sorry. ETH. ETH has been trending. Sol. Doge. RBI. Let's see what's going on in the pre-market here. Tesla. Down bad. I have Coinbase. Down bad. NVIDIA. The Ponzi of all Ponzies. And Hood. The worst place in the world. But probably one of the best casinos in the world. So I hate it. I'll never use it. But it is what it is. Be they got a casino in your pocket. They got a casino in your pocket. Okay. Let's see what this said here. Sure. Let's set up the back testing using back testing up. You why with the updated data. I'll assume that the break up strategy is based on entering a trade when the price breaks above the resistance level and exiting when it falls below the support level. Nabi. Dang it. Dang it. Okay. So shout out to Homeboy up there who said something about editing. You can edit messages. I didn't even know it. It's really good, bro. It's a really good edition you did over here. Dude, thank you so much. Thank you so much. And I'm not going to get to questions immediately, bro. So don't need to tag me, dog, but I love you. 777. I can see him coming in over there. But you know, it's a fine balance of focusing and answering questions. But here if you're on Twitch, you could I can I promise you that I will answer. I will answer. I just got to balance the focus and the questions for sure. So no need to tag me and say, you know, follow up on your questions. I love you so so much. And I see him coming through. Don't worry, dude, I keep the twitch open on the side of my screen so I can see the love coming through 777. Do you focus is a crazy thing. It's a crazy thing. No worries, dog. No worries. I see you out there. I see you. I'm going to get to it. I'm going to get to it. I usually answer the questions when when AI is outputting or something, you know. I think that's the best way to do it. We got some big licks coming through here. Some big licks. Here I'm just going to go back to my back test and see if that data changed things a little bit because this actually was set up correctly. Okay, there we go. It's different, but still one trade it looks like. So someone's going on. They literally just bought an old botan hill. But it did well. Okay, so it's because I didn't have a take profit on there. So, so Boba. So it literally bought one breakout. So that's the trading bot for you guys. That's the bot for today. Just buy and hold. The problem is it just bought right here. So this is great. This is great. Let's make, let's put like a take profit in there or something. How should we take profit though? There's just literally bot here and the hell tell here. So oh man, funny, funny, funny. It's funny because I was making videos about, about whiff down here as well. So, you know, I'm not here to promote tokens at all. I'm never will. Never will. I'm sorry. I won't. But this is a funny strategy that it did that. And that makes sense because I didn't put any cells in there. So cool, cool, but not that cool because that's not what we're here for. Let's go ahead here and say. Above is my code. Please build and our ad. Please add an opt to my server that I want to do a couple things. No, no, no. Above is my code. Please add a take profit, add a close of the trade win. This should go raw dog a little bit. It doesn't matter what token. Really, it doesn't. It really do not. It really do not. I wanted to do this when I'm overfitting it. So, you know, I don't want to do this too much, but I kind of want to see the range here. 10%. Let's just let's do let's just do base off a take profit right now. Please add a close of the trade win. It hits 20%. That's too much, I would say, but just want to get it in there and then we can start optimizing, you know. Let me answer some questions here. Yo, Z2, what up my dude? Big Fanny says, I found about you on Twitch right now. No way. That's awesome. No way. And then you used to watch on YouTube. That's so sick, bro. That's so cool that you just found out the Twitch and used to watch on YouTube. I'm wondering if you did you find about Twitch in the YouTube or so, worm says, I'm just going to call you worm from here on out. Sorry. Worm says, FS Trent says, you started streaming 35 minutes ago. I guess what I was looking for is what dated. I switched over to Twitch. That's what I'm really wondering about. I could probably figure it out somehow. I think I started putting in my YouTube videos. That was over live on Twitch. Z2 says, sir, can you check your email later? I tried to contact you before. When did you contact me, my guy? Like, how many hours ago? Or days or years? I got a filter on there, so if it's wack, I don't answer. One day ago, like 24 hours ago or 12 hours ago. It was right when I came back from Hawaii. I started on Twitch. Yo, thank you. I appreciate that. When I came back from Hawaii. Who? Yeah, Z2. So usually we get back to emails in a little bit of time. I think it's me though. I got a team that helps me with my emails. I don't know what your request was, but they filter out stuff based off of random variables. But I'm here right now live if you want to ask me something. It's probably the best way. The best time to ask me questions is here because email is like, there's a filter there, just because I get a lot of spam and stuff. So, but ask your question here on Twitch and you're going to get the quickest response. Always, always, always. If it's about billing or support, those answers should be fairly quick on email. Those are not automated, but we always respond to that type of stuff. But like theory questions, I'd always just ask them here. Oh, if you want to learn from me, dude, it's all here. The only way I teach people the bootcamp. There's a link in the description. So if you want to learn this stuff for me, it's all in the the bootcamp. I show you step by step how to automate your trading. Every single step of the way, I wish I had when I got started. I show and I just updated this like two weeks ago. So it's like twice as much new stuff as well. And you get all my algos. Unfortunately, I don't do one-on-one coaching or group coaching or anything like that because it's not scalable. I have to keep running towards my crazy goals. My crazy goals will bring everybody up in my opinion. You learn programming as well. Check out the website. Read it. Read it, my brother. Read it. Read the website dog. I'm glad you're here. I'm glad you're here. 7772. Yes, you'll learn programming as well. I didn't know how to code either. So, yo, what up? Cool, cool, lied. 7777. So good to see you, bro. I'm glad you're over here. Yo, strange plant. Oh, it's here as well. We got some new timers. Yo, I'm so I'm over here on Twitch and I only talk to people on Twitch now. I'm sorry. I love everybody on YouTube too. It's just too easy to get into. So I had to put a little wall up in order for any comments because I know if you come over to Twitch, you're only sharing love. Love is everything, dude. I don't need any negative comments. I got some negative stuff yesterday and it hurt my soul. I know I'm soft. I get it. I'm emotional. That's why I don't trade by hand. And you're still trading by hand, which you shouldn't be, but it's okay be. So if you got any questions, comments, do you want to chat with me anything? I keep my Twitch open at all times. So there's a link in the description if you do want to come over to Twitch. Yo, strange plant. Have you heard of the deep learning library called Burn for Rust? I have not. That's really cool though. I appreciate it. Burn for Rust. I did learn Rust, so I'm not a professional by any means. I'm not really a professional at anything, but Burn for Rust. Okay, I checked it out. All right, put it on my list. Thank you so much. That's alpha. Cool. Cool. I live says I'd like to learn to make a M.E.V. bot sandwich attacks arbitrage bots from different trading pairs. That's cool, dude. I don't do sandwiching. Sandwiching is not not very ethical. So I stay away from that arbitrage. That's fine. In my opinion. And you know, we're around those parts. I don't show much. M.E.V. here. M.E.V. is very PVP, like even more PVP than trading, like with trading and the process I show about how to automate your trading here, the RBI system. It's still PVP, but there is more opportunity for people to do well if they come up with a good strategy. So with M.E.V, it's like winter takes all. So obviously any M.E.V. I do. I'm not just like going to show the exact strategy here, but it's arbitrage. Z2 says any tips on becoming a blockchain developer. Can you give a roadmap? Yeah, learn salinity. Learn salinity and Rust, then you'll be able to build on either blockchain. And then that I mean, all of them pretty much. So Rust is going to allow you to build on Solana and the salinity will pretty much let you build on everything else. Go ahead here and see what happened. I know I asked a question. Please update my code. Okay, so we have this take profit now. Okay. I did take profit. Okay, let's see how this changes the strap because so far the strategy just says to buy hold and that's cool, but there's risk involved with that. Also make this T3A variable we can change and then add the optimizer to it so we can test between 5 and 30% in 1% intervals. We just want something rough, a rough like rough kind of working because I'm building this breakout bot and when breakout bots, when it's time to run breakout bots, you can get kind of dirty. And the TPs are not a huge thing, but it is a thing for sure. Cool. Cool. I'd says to be honest, MV is unethical. There's enough money in the crypto world to make money in better ethical ways. I'll focus on arbitrage and trading bots. Thanks man. 777. Oh, this is DJ Khaled. Don't. Yeah, I remember you from YouTube. Thanks for coming on over, man. Everybody with good vibes comes over here to Twitch. Everybody's just checking things out. Goes to YouTube. So I'm glad you have committed to us and you're here now. You're here forever. You know, MV can definitely be looked at as pretty unethical. The sandwich attacks in particular. You know, the other stuff is fine. MV is such a long tail of stuff. It's really just a name for building bots on chain. I would say. We've been doing a lot of on-chain bots here. This sniper could be considered MV. We built this sniper here. Over time, we built it all on the stream. This could be considered MV very much so because it's on-chain and it's sniping new tokens really early. MV is just like from my studies at least. What I've tested, MV is just super long tail. It could be farming airdrops. It's usually just using code to find some sort of edge on chain. That's kind of like how I've distilled it from here. The big things are arbitrage, like trying to do arbitrage across multiple decks is that's the one I'm most interested in other than sniping of course. The sandwich attacks just represents, like if it was a real financial market it would be illegal. That's why I say away from it because it's like it's front running and back running. You see a big order coming through and it's like, oh, I'm going to buy it before and then tell it right back to him. That's eventually going to be illegal, I would say. Anything that's eventually about to be illegal, I just stay away from it. I'm not launching tokens, nothing like that because at the end of the day, I don't know what the laws are unfortunately. It's so ambiguous. But Yo, FS trends up in here now. He went from worm over to... It won't let me change my Twitch screen name. Big worm. Yes, exactly. That's what I was thinking about when I was calling you worm every time. I was thinking about big worm with the perm. You got the perm, Trent? You got the perm. I'm glad you're back, bro. Glad you're back. Oh, it's me being back. You're an early morning East Coast guy. So I missed you, man. It's been a while. Now you popped in here and there but it's good to see you, dude. It's good to see you. I hope everything is going well. Did we get the optimizer in here? Is the question, yes, take profit ATR. We should also check at that ATR period maybe. I don't want to spend too much time on this back test because I want to get to... We have to build a scanner, which I thought I had somewhere. So I'm going to look through it. I need a scanner for things that are breaking out and then just boom, boom. You know what I'm saying? I think I have that, though. So let's go ahead here. Copy this code over. Okay. Break out. Okay. Sick. This should optimize now. I mean, if it works, but we'll see. Okay. You can see where's the optimizer at here? It is optimizer. Take profit equity final. Okay. So wait, wait, wait. It does both. Oh, interesting. I've never set it up like that. Sick. So it's optimizing. Okay. So now this is much more trades and max drawdowns 72%. That's heavy. So we're in drawdown right now. Equity. Okay. Well, it got one of them done. What happened here, dude? Oh, it's optimizing. It got broken on the optimizer. See, exposure time is 98%. It's too much. It's too much in my opinion, but sharp ratio is zero. So, Latinos unreal. Mouth 66 trades, which is nice. Profit factor 48. The return is 21% 21,000%. Buying hold is 1255. Okay. So that's good. That's really good. But where are these trades that are here, right here? Big lick on the short. 700 just got taken off on somebody's short here on ETH and BTC. Oh, man. These boys is gambling again. These boys are gambling again. Look at that. They shorted here. Oh, my goodness. They shorted right around here and they got erect. That's sad. They're out here gambling on a Tuesday morning. Oh, the market's about to open up. So let's go ahead and get this air in here because I'm curious since this strategy did so well. It's very biased. This is a very biased strategy, though, because I it's like survivorship bias, right? I picked with and with has been going crazy. So to have a 20,000 percent return, it's nice, but you just just remember that. Like I'm trying to be authentic here with you. I'm not just like showing you like good stuff. Like I am sure this is good, but I gotta let you know that like don't get too excited about the return, right? Because this I picked a symbol that has been going crazy. So you can see the buy and hold here. Let's go check it out. The buy and hold here is 1,200 percent. So that's a 10x buy and hold. So to have 21,000 percent return, like that's a lot of course, but it's survivorship bias. Let's explain that, Luxy. Luxy, this is your time to shine. What is a what is survived survived for ship bias in the terms of algo traded? So survivorship bias in context of algorithmic trading and survivorship bias refers to the tendency of disproportionate leaf focus on the tendency to disproportionately focus on successful trading strategies or trading systems that have survived and become widely recognized while neglecting or overlooking unsuccessful strategies or failed systems. So data selection when testing trading strategies, it's essential to include historical data on assets or securities that no longer exists due to delisting bankruptcy or other reasons, excluding failed assets from historical data sets. So picking a symbol that is so great is is tricky. So I just want to get something bait, like a base strategy here. So I can then build it into a bot, but I think the back test is the first part that is important because remember, how do I personally automate my trading? I start with research. We did a little bit of that, but I had an idea kind of coming into this and then we're back testing to see if it's profitable. Is it profitable? I mean, it is. Yeah, it is, but like I'd be curious on a different data set. So maybe we can try a different data set. Daily resistance hourly close breakout detected. Yo, Trent, I think I figured it out, but maybe not. So I'm going to make sure you got all this code. I can probably just DM to later. You have a problem with double data sets, but I think your problem's a little different. You're looking for the evolving time period and I think. So I think we have different problems here, but that's all good. We'll figure it out together. Keep building me. Hopefully it's helpful. So I got this error and please fix the above error. Okay. Let me go ahead and answer some questions here. Yo, strange plan. It says yes, I'm over here on Twitch. All questions on Twitch. Yes, it was written and Russ. Russ is definitely the best language right now and likely to the language of the future. I learned Russ and right now for me, Python is still my thing, but Russ, I have it in the bag. I'm losing that bag quick because I haven't really done anything with it yet. So Z2, what up, bro? Z2 over here on Twitch says how much time did it take you to learn all this stuff? It took me about, I'm three and a half years deep. So to learn Python though, three months maybe. I went four hours a day. I teach you it here and I can teach you how to do it. The bootcamp shows you absolutely everything including how to code. And it's from a non like code school person that went to school for 42 years to learn how to code. So that's good and bad. I miss things, but I just teach you how to out go trade. I teach you how to code for out go trade. You know what I'm saying? So let's go ahead here and keep the questions coming in. I'll hear on Twitch side and I will keep answering them. Every time I get a break, I apologize. It might be like a minute or two before I answer your question, but I want to get things done today. Be okay. See still long orders require stop loss. So what's going on? Dog. Okay, every time I paste into the AI, I'll just answer the questions here. Let's see here. What are those terminals open in the bottom of the screen that keep updating by orders, liquidations, which I do use for that info? Are they paid APIs? Okay, good question. So these are the new tokens being launched or the top volume tokens in the last hour here. The pictures of them because the meme is everything when it comes to new launches. These are the words of the new launches, the names. These are the top volume. These are the all the orders coming through on the Binance API to answer your question. Binance API right here, all of the big orders, the huge orders, so big orders, huge orders. These are the liquidations. Again, Binance API free. These are the huge liquidations. This is my sniper. My sniper's based off the bird eye API though. So that one's like 200 a month or something crazy like that. All right, let's go ahead and try to get this going, dude. We got the first back test done, which is great. It's profitable, sweet, but is it profitable? We'll see. Yo, bro, what's going on? Who's Goosey with this? I don't even want to see this one anymore. I think I'm going to just remove this. I don't want any more. I want to plot this one here. A BT dot plot op stats dot plot BT dot plot BT dot plot op stats. plot op stats plot opt. Okay, say, okay. I'm going to lead this part. That's profitable. See, whoa, I can't do that. I'm going to leave this plot. So I keep getting this error on the optimization. plot op. Nice error, bro. I have it now. I'm using five on SDK. Nice, dude. I see what you're saying. I've lost rent once in the match. The Pinescript, the trading view of Pinescript. Well, I mean, I think we had to do it, but it sounds like you got it kind of under control. I don't think that things are going to be perfect. Back test started just an indicator, right? So a certain error. Come on, okay? Yeah, I appreciate it. Everybody over here on Twitch. The vibe is so, so nice over here. It is so, so nice over here. Keep those good questions coming in here on Twitch and I'll answer them as the AI outputs things. Let's see what they're trying to do here. So the error is stop loss because stop loss sometimes ends up with it being invalid, which causes an assertion error. We need to ensure the stop loss is always greater than zero. Yeah, dude. We know you have a stop loss. We shouldn't have a stop loss here. Yeah, we do. We need the ATR. ATRs are stop loss. ATR. But the question is, is what ATR is it using? It's not really the ATR, but that's good enough, I guess. Oh, stock market just opened. So BTC is going getting down bad here. A lot of liquidations happening. You can see them coming in here and long liquidations. Couple big ones here. Yo, much love to use Z2. Thanks for stopping by, bro. 777, collade. Cool, cool, I'm going to call you cool, they call you cool, they're the cool, they man. The cool, they man, Tesla down bad. All right, so this code includes an additional check to ensure the stop loss greater is always greater than zero. Good, good job, buddy. Good job, good job. Great job out there. Keep it going, keep it going. Run it. Come on, bloody. Value your long order to fire stop loss of .03, limit. Okay, let's make this a little simpler on her because she's tripping. I'm going to give her one more try, but after that, I want to just make a hard stop loss because dead, we could really just run it up. Navidia going crazy, dude. All these smokes. Look at these gaps, be. All right, let's go ahead and see this back test. Okay, not quite, not quite. I'm going to give it one more try, but then I'm just going to scrap this because I know it, it's like ATR is fine. This is working great. Like the, I'm not going to scrap it, but okay, you could see it. So what I'm trying to say is this worked. The strategy worked here. And it is what it is. Data dot close, self dot data. ATR period, what did it do? It's a question. Daily data, daily data, what is the data? Where's the data being passed in here? Self dot data. Okay. I'm going to say, okay, this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to save this. This one is based off of the ATR close, ATR stop loss. This one is done. Let's say, let's put the strategy, profitability or whatever. It's super profitable, but don't be again too excited about this. Yo, it got less profitable, a matter of fact. So let's go backwards. All right, let's try that one. Not that it matters too much because again, backstats is just an indicator. In my opinion, at least. Let's do, let's go get it from here. Let's see what this one looks like. Where'd you go? I missed you. So I lost my code. It's been so long. Okay, there we go. There's the strategy. This is the one that's confirmed working and you can see my bound. Okay, it's 21,000 percent return. Win rate is 98%. Profifactor is 48% or 48. Expectancies 100%. Thousand percent. Okay, sweet dude. Thank you. Thank you for your attention today. Throw the 7777s in the chat. I just gave you a profitable strategy, but again, it's not that impressive because it's a symbol that's going straight up, dude. So don't get too impressed. I know you're impressed right now. I know you're like, oh, I'm going to run this strategy. Yeah, yeah, okay. Okay, but don't get too excited now because there is, I picked that symbol. Okay, let's go ahead and try this. Let's try it on a different symbol. Let's prove that. Let's prove that first. Okay, this is with. So I'm going to say with here. Breakout. I'm going to say rename B-O. B-O with. Now, let's just change it to another symbol and see how it changes the things. Okay, 528 here. Just want to concept that I can kind of build off of to build the strategy. Again, the back test is just a indicator, right? So things change, markets change. So I just don't want to be authentic and transparent here with you that like that strategy looked so good because it was a symbol that was so good. You feel me, be. 777 in the chat if you feel me, you understand that because I don't want anybody to go think that this is like some crazy good strategy because it's not. Okay, let's pick a random symbol here. Well, again, this is going to be bias because I want to find something that has been around for a while. Let's do like I and J. Okay, there's a little bias there. Of course, I picked it, but let's get the data here first. So data here, where can we get the data data here? Okay, let's say I and J. Let's get the I and J one day. Data first. Okay. And then we're going to get the one hour data here. Run it. Okay, we got both of them now. So now we're going to go get the daily here copy path. And then we're going to go over to this. This is two, but now we're going to change it. It says we know the name. We still need to look through the rest of those, those, those tokens, I and J. Okay. So I need to change out these data sources. Now this is the daily here. So we just go here daily. Okay. And then the hourly of the I and J here is copy path here. I'm sorry if I'm going too fast for you. I can teach you everything in the boot camp. There's a link below. Okay, let's go ahead here. And I show I show how to back that's all this stuff so much. Okay, this one is not as profitable, but it's still profitable. So we still have that error, but F that error. I don't even care about it. Where's the data? So there it is. So you can see this one has a return of 121, 23% while the buy and hold is 71%. So that's two different symbols that this strategy is profitable on. So 99% trade percentage is too much, in my opinion, old time, but maybe there's an error in the strategy. I don't know. I don't think so because we can see the trades here. Open close, open close, but we haven't optimized it yet because our optimizer is having to hiccup now. So I want to go ahead and optimize this, but if you're not live, then you're going to miss that and you'll have to catch it some other time. All right, so this trading bot technically does 21,876% return. This is the back this. So I can just run it again so you can see it. Okay, ran the back this here. Here is the curve here. Okay, let me run it one more time. So it comes up on the right screen. And 21,000% solid, solid, solid, returned. I mean, the buy and hold is really good too. So there's a lot of bias built into this survivorship biases. The number one thing picking a symbol. It will trick you. Look at this 21,876%. Got you, bro. Yes, it's true, but the buy and hold is 12,000%. What happens when we change this to a symbol that's not dog with hat? Well, it changes. Now it's 123% return. So you can see like be careful out there. Clicking on videos and stuff. Now it's 123%. Still almost twice as good as the buy and hold. So that's awesome. Not very many trades, but you can see how this stuff can be changed up, manipulated, and you know, just be careful out there. Make sure to come with your own strategy. Number one, make sure to backtested to make sure it works with your strategy. There's nobody out there that's going to give you a strategy. This just plug and play. I'm going to go ahead and build this strategy out into a bot today. But before I want to backtested some more, the big thing I see here that I don't like is this 98%, which is 99% pretty much exposure time. So you can see the trades here. You can see this is the first win right here. E&L is 19% then here. Second win is here. Third win is here. You see it. All it does is win pretty much except here. Lost here. Okay. So that's that cool back test, cool story, bro. Is this something that I'm going to run? No, because it's simply survivorship bias. I mean, I did pull it put in I&J, which has not been going crazy. It's just been kind of ranging for the last 200 days. Maybe it's gone a bit. It has clearly 71%. So it does beat that. Let's try it. First, I want to try it with two new symbols. This is extra. I want to use two new symbols. And then I want to here. I'm just going to do this. I'm going to say this is I&J here. And I'm going to use two new symbols. And what are those symbols going to be? Let's pick soul. And then what's another one? Let's just do E. I guess it's all, you know, it's there's so many different regimes in each market, right? So the regime we've been in for the last 200 days is like up. So it's like strategies are going to look good, but like be wary of that because for me, I'm looking for things that last for 10, 15, 20, 30 years. I know crypto hasn't been along that around that long. And some people don't believe it's going to be here for that long, but that's fine. Keep your biases to yourself. Keep your strategies to your chest and just keep building every single day. That's what I do here. My name is Moondab. I believe close a great equalizer. That's why I share the most intense, most competitive industry in the world that nobody's going to share anything with you ever. Sorry, dude, they're not. They're not going to share it with you. But I'm going to share everything I do. I'm not sitting here saying I'm going to give you a bot that runs and you're going to make a bajillion dollars. That's cap beef. That's key. Big cap it. I'm not a cover. So stay away from that. But let's go ahead and try this for soul and then eat. So let's go to our data file here. Data. Okay. Let's do soul first. Okay, one hour. Let's get one day. So I got one hour. It's in there. And then I'm going to do ETH. That's boring. ETH is boring, bro. F.E. I like ETH, but I'm going to do something more fun here. Just random Kpepe. TIA. Let's do TIA because I know they've been wrecked. Rect, rigged, wrecked. Let's do link. Let's do link. Let's do link. Let's do some fun. I don't want to do anything too fun because the memes are going crazy. Let's just do near, near. I don't know what's going on with near. I haven't looked in the near and a long time. If ever. But that doesn't matter. That's not the point. The point is to find stuff that's random. I ain't a random at least. I mean, it's all crypto. So all right. So we have that new file here. And this is a what day is it today? I said it was I and J. I'm going to change it to multiple. Okay. Multiple. Whatever. That's fine. Whatever the name doesn't matter. Let's do near first. I and J first. Soul first. What did we do? What did we do? Let's do soul first. Let's see if this strategy actually works on other symbols. It works on two out of two so far. But they're both kind of sketch in my opinion because the exposure time is very high. And I want less exposure time. But we'll work on that here today. The process of automate your trading is this. That's why I'm starting here, dude. I show it every single day. This is my process to automate your trading. Research strategies. We already researched the strategy. Now we're back testing the strategy. When I got started with this, I went right to the bot and I did it back test. I didn't research. I had an idea in my mind. It's not the way you want to do it. That's why I show all this here. The majority of the algorithmic trading process is done for free. The R and the B are free. Research and back test. Research back test. Research back test. Once you have a strategy that works in the past, it's much more likely to work in the future. But it's not guaranteed. That's why I'm not like over here. So excited about 21,000% return. I'm live on Twitch. I keep the Twitch chat open if you have any questions. You can always hit me there. I will answer the questions every time I have a down moment. There's a link in the description below. Let's go ahead and get this multi in here. Did we get the soul in there? Yes. Let's get the soul one hour in there now. Copy that. Okay. Paste it in. Okay. Now we're going to run this back test and see how it does. There's a little error in the optimization, but that's fine. I need to run it again because I had it on the wrong screen. Okay. What is this? This is upwards. Cool. So it's another winner here. So this strategy is showing us a little more robust. But hey, you know, this is a regime. Remember, there's multiple regimes. There's multiple regimes in the market. There's bear markets. There's bull markets. There's markets that go sideways. I feel like we're in more of a bull. And you can see the return is 452%. The buying holds two nights. So this again beats it. It's good. Not many trades though, which, you know, some people hate that. Some people don't. Some people trade lethargicly. Some people like to trade in for a minute. It just depends on what you want to do. Dude, I'm not here to tell you. I'm not your guru. I'm just here building every single day. So let's go ahead and try it with near now. I do have a bootcamp that I teach you everything in, but I'm not your guru, bro. So don't come at me. I'm still learning. I'm three and a half years in deep. If you are completely new or you're just getting started, this bootcamp will teach you step by step how to automate your trading. And it will give you all the resources I wish I had. If you come at me, you better not miss. That's all I'm saying. Because I don't want this bootcamp. This bootcamp is for you, dude. I don't want it. I don't want to business. I'm done with business. I'm retired. Come at me. You better not miss. That's all I got to say. We got keyboard warriors all around on YouTube. So we got to we have to cut off the YouTube. YouTube is still streaming. Of course, keep sharing everything. I believe close a great equalizer. It's just a little too easy for the keyboard warriors that are emotionally trading these markets to jump in there. They have a bad day and they come bring it out on me and I don't like that. So much love to everybody on YouTube. I'm passing you love. But twitch is where we are these days. Twitch is where the chat is. And if you have questions, you can see a big lick right here. This is a keyboard warrior right here. Let's go ahead and run this. So now we're running on near. Okay. Holy smokes. This one didn't work actually. Let me see. Let me see what's going on with this data near. Oh, I didn't put the one. I didn't put the one hour near in there. Copy path here. So we got some liquidations on BTC now to the upside. Not the upside. It's the downside, but the downside is upside. If you see what I'm saying. So you can see if you're shorty and I see the liquidations, if you're long and I see the liquidations, I see everything, dude. I'm still here. I'm learning. I'm not your guru dog, but come at me. You better not miss. That's all I'm saying, dog. That's all I'm saying. Okay, you could see here. It's too much data. I don't want all this data anymore. So print stats, print stats, print stats, plot, print stats. Okay, optimize. I'm not going to do this optimization name. Because the optimization hasn't been working for us. So why do you even have it there? You feel me be okay. Let's see here. This one's 19 trades. And again, 880% versus the 591%. So the strategy seems to be semi robust, robust for this regime. It doesn't mean it's going to work forever as the thing. You got to look at the data that I'm testing it on. The data is like 200 days. So that's like the big thing here is while these look profitable and we have, let's see, the first strategy here with whiff is 21,876% return. Cool. Backtests are the buy and hold is 1200%. But that was a little too good to be true. So I tested it with I&J, which is another crypto. The buy hold 71%, the return is 123%. I know it's not statistically significant. 14 trades. Okay, it's a regime. This one as well. The Solana here. Return. Buy and hold. Okay. Near as well. But now I want to go ahead and change this whole back to stuff. So how am I going to do that? I'm going to take this here. I'm going to copy it all. We're going to say with multi. Let's do multi. I should have kept those data. I do have the data perfect. So let's say 528. And remember, you see how much time I'm putting in here? Like I've already spent an hour and a half on this earlier of backtesting. It's because this is the most important part. The bot is easy. The bot's easy to build. I've already built them. They're already built. Like it's really about, it's really about finding the alpha that actually works. Okay, let's go ahead here and say, hey, paste that in. In the above, I want to change the optimization. So it optimizes, optimizes for a TP and stop loss test variables between a 3 and 30 30 percent. 25 percent. 20 percent. For each, remove the ATR stop. Okay, sweet. Yeah, Caribbean. What's up, bro? How are you? It's good to see you over here on the Twitch side. Twitch side is the dark side. Sorry. I'm in programming platform. Is that the code? Yeah. Thank you. Have a strength. Yes, I do Caribbean strength. I do. That's, as you can see, this is what I do full-time. I'm privileged to have a large stack that I'm essentially retired off of and I'm trading it for the rest of my life. But I quickly saw by hand trading about three and a half years ago, hand trading is not the business for me. To emotional, I buy up here, sell down here, just like most humans do, but that's the whole thing. So I started on this journey three and a half years ago to automate my trading. And now we're here and I show you every step of the way. I'm glad you're doing well Caribbean strength. I'm down here as well in the Caribbean if you're actually in the Caribbean. So that's dope. That's super dope. We're neighbors. Okay, let's see this. You can see here the break, take profit, stop loss. No, he asked you've made your retirement off of programming trading about. No, but I've grown that retirement face after him about. Yes. All right, so let's go ahead and see how this works. See if this works out. So you can see the stop loss and the take profit are ranging between three and 20. I'm still getting this error. Okay, what happened here? Okay, peak is 294. Okay. So the P and L curve. Okay. What is the actual return on this one? It's worse. It's worse. It's definitely worse. 97 trades. Exposure time is much better. Buy and hold is a 133%. Dang, I wasn't supposed to do that. Okay, let's say stop loss percentage. Let's put it at 20. We got to fix this. So you can see the stop loss, the bigger the stop loss, the better. So far, I mean that we're looking at. We were using the ATR stop. Ah, that makes sense. The ATR stop was based off of. Okay, I get it. I get it. I get it now. So okay, because we had the ATR stop, it was probably based off of the daily. So it wasn't stopping us out too much before when we started this video before we use this one. Okay, that's good to know. Again, that's not, it doesn't matter too much because it is what it is. The backstab works. It works. I'll go with whatever strategy that works with. So you can see, you can see there is an error above. Please fix the code. I'll answer all questions here on Twitch that come through. Why Caribbean strengths is why crypto instead of Forex? Where you live, Ebro? That's my question for you, but I like crypto because I like crypto. Forex is boring to me. I've never gotten interested in Forex. I know Forex trading is good. It's a mean-roverting market. So I might go there someday because there's a lot of mean-roverting strategies that I do have. And in Forex, it reverts more often, but it's just boring. I did probably 15 years ago, 20 years ago. No, let's be honest here. How many years was it actually? How old am I now? No, it was like 15 years ago. Yeah, 15 years ago, I did the baby pits. Pips. Baby, baby, baby, pips. Of course, I haven't looked at this in a long time. But I just got bored out of my mind to be honest. But this was way before I was a trader or anything like that. So maybe I need to go through this again. I will definitely go through this again, actually. I don't know if this is the same one, but there was a really good baby pips or something that taught you how to Forex trade or learn Forex. Yeah, I think this is it. But I was bored out of my mind when I started this back in the day. But that was before I even knew about crypto, before I knew about trading, before I knew about any of this, I think what was that five or four or five years later, after I did something, I didn't do all of it. I got bored with tears. But after that, I and went ahead and got introduced to crypto. And then I got introduced, like interested in finance. Let's go ahead here. Did you say you make a living off selling trading bots? No, I don't sell trading bots, dude. I don't sell trading bots. I don't think that's a thing. You don't know what you sell trading bots. And if they do, there's no edge in them. I'll show people how to automate their trading, but they have to have their own strategy. So no, yeah, I mean, I'm going to close this bootcamp. It's not here for it's just it's just a public good. It's a public good. It's 69 bucks. So it's not much money being made there. But it is what it is. And I have it here for people that keep asking me the same question over and over again. Like, how do I get started? Where do I start? So I just put it all together. Yeah, but I had success in business in that time frame between the 15 years. I had success in business and that brought me to crypto and been in crypto for a long time. So I've had success in crypto as well. And that led me to thinking, oh, I could make more if I traded it. And then that led me to automated my trading. So all your profit is made by automating your strategies. I've got a ton of profit streams, bro. I've built businesses over 15 years. I've got a ton of profit streams. But yes, my whole my whole career is our worth of trading. And that is where I am pulling in the majority of my profits. It's different. It's profit. It's growing a stack first like app businesses and whatnot. So so let's go ahead here and let's go ahead here. The error occurs because the calculated stop loss. Okay, this is the same error. It doesn't satisfy the condition when the stop loss should be less than the limit price, which should be less than the take profit. I think this is what Trent was saying actually. Must be calculating correctly. Current closed. Self.data. What's the data? Caribbean. It's not simple by any means, dude. This is not simple at all. This is hard. This is the hardest industry I've ever been in. Easily. This is the most vicious PVP industry I've ever been in. That's why you don't see any content about this because nobody shares anything. When you find your edge, you don't share it. So don't like it seems easy. But don't fall into that because it's not not easy at all. You got to literally come up with a strategy that works for you. And that means you got to learn how to trade. That means you have to learn how to code. And that means you have to viciously dedicated. So it's not easy. And I think that's why I stay away from talking about money. And I see your pushing me hard on that. The money part. But it's okay. I think it's coming out of love. But I don't lead with money too much. Today, this stream title is the most I've ever led with it. It's just because we were literally backtesting. And yeah, it's just a fine line because it's there's so much liability. If I were to be like, yo, look at how much I've made this year. And it's like, oh, I get a lot of people that have that same comment you have of saying, I'm laughing at how simple it sounds. It's not simple. It's not simple at all. But I'm fortunate to be in a good life position where all I need to do is focus on increasing my alpha and increasing my return on my portfolio. So while it looks simple, keep coming back and you'll see how hard I go at this every single day because it's not simple. It's just not. All right, so I'm going to give this a try and then okay, it might be optimizing now. I think it's optimizing. So Kool-Aid says a strategy can be making trades off indicators such as the RSI. As if RSI is less than 40, MACD is green, histogram, EMA, shoreline, above long line, super trend is green and sell if the holding profit reached 10%. Can I do that? Yes. It's not super basic, bro. The thing is is like, everybody wants to get like, everybody thinks that everybody's like the the quants out there are doing like these intricate strategies and they're just not, they're not like some are, some are using some deep math. But at the end of the day, like it doesn't matter if it's intricate, simple, or anything. Don't get discouraged, bro. Like what you just described to me was, let's see, one, two, three indicators. And there's a lot of work in strategies out there that use just three variables like that. Maybe not those exact ones, I can't tell you, but now it's on you because you have beautiful ideas clearly. It's on you to back tests to see if it actually worked in the past. It worked in the past. It's not guaranteed to work in the future, but it's much more likely. So you can see we're optimizing the strategy now. So I'm just laying it run. So Kool-Aid from Twitch says, I just want to make a bot that will trade automatically, and that's better than trading myself as a motion can hinder my ability to realize gains or be patient for a better entry. Yeah, bro. It's the same for everybody. You're good. Don't worry about it, dude. You're, you're going to be great at this. You have the same problem most people have. It's the whole reason I started automated my training, because the motion got the best of me. And you don't take profit. You don't take profit on winners and you, you don't respect your stop loss on losers. That's it. That's it. Okay, look at this. So this one has a 400% return. What I like about this, though, is I know this is lower than the buy and hold, but you don't have the risk of buy and hold. It's only 21% exposure time. So depending on what like what my portfolios looking for at the time, I might run this over something. So I think this is interesting to show. I know it's less than buy and hold, and there's going to be trolls out there like, oh, you could just buy and hold. Okay, but can you pick dog with hat? This is a question. Can you pick the winner? That's that's the question. So I think this is a solid strategy. I mean, obviously, it's not the one. This is not the one for me, but it's interesting to see. I want to go ahead and test it on a couple other data sources. So here, um, had 161 trades. It's a good amount of trades. What was the optimized? Okay, so it didn't print out the optimizations. Profifactor 1.37. Okay. I want to make sure that it prints out the optimizations as well. Please make sure. Please make sure the code prints out the optimizations as well. So we know which, which variables of stop loss and take profit to use. Okay. Just asking for that because I want it. I want to be. I want it. And then I'm going to switch it over to a new data set. Okay. So here, this is, this is one here. It's another winner, but it's less than what we started with here today. But that's because we put in a stop loss and you can see how dramatically it changes things. I think it's cool. I think it's cool to see that. Okay, I'm going to try this one out with a new data set. This one's for a whiff here. But whiff is very, uh, for survivorship bias. So let's go ahead and try this new code out first. Paces in there. Okay. And then I'm going to go ahead and change out the data. Let's do, uh, I and J, let's just go straight down the list. Daily copy path, hourly, copy path. Okay. Nice. Oh, this one's down bad. I mean off the original. So you can see how the stop loss changes things. Just a little change like that. So let's have this optimize here and see if it can get better than this. See if we can get better than this. Hey, Ron noodles. What's up, bro? I just saw your message come through. And I'm sorry that you're having a problem beginning the bootcamp. Bootcamp is just going to show you step by step how to automate your trading. It sounds like you had a problem with your card. Yeah, shoot us an email. It sounds like you shot us an email already. So we can get that handled. You can use crypto if you want stable coins or try different cards. Sometimes it just blocks people depending on the location and things like that. You know, it's through Stripe. So Stripe blocks people here and there. So I'm over here live on Twitch if you have any questions, comments or love. Let's go ahead here and see what's going on with the market here. Coinbase is up now. Wow, that was a good dip buy for whoever is an intraday trader. Same with Seoul. I mean, Tesla. Tesla Seoul same day. Okay, here we go. So this one is 39 trades. 201% is the best. Yo, this is good. I like it. Max drawdowns sort of Tino. The sharp's not great, but sharp's never really that great. And crypto. So welcome. I was drawn down here. Okay, the sunbat max drawdown 40% is not great, but it arose. I didn't work. I got this error. This is great though. This is really good. Return 200% buy and hold is 71%. Exposure time is 30%. This is a good back test. It's actually better than the one I showed you earlier. This back test is great. Like the 2000, 20,000% return, but they had 90% exposure time. So that's why like, it's just so many ways to slice this pie and so many ways to attack this market. So for me, I like this one better, but I showed you the 21,000% return of the start. So maybe you like that one better, you know, just depends on what you're shooting for. I like, I like low exposure time. If you want better than buying hold, then it's like, okay, just use that other one. I don't know if it works in the future, but we'll see because we're going to build that every single day I build more every single day. I'm not stopping. I'm sorry. I'm sorry, but I'm not sorry at all because I love this stuff. So let's go ahead here and print that out again. I want to go to my where I want to go. Let's check my gear up. Which is my optimizer is not playing nicely here. So let's go to see all my repos. I share all the code that are a lot of code in the bootcamp. So you're looking for that. That's there. So let's see. Let's see. All my repos. I share all the code that are a lot of code in the bootcamp. So you're looking for that. That's there. I'm going to put this data. Trading algals by going to probably statarb, trading bots, breakout, wake algal. We build a lot of do. Okay. Let's see this. Here's an example. Please update. Please update the above code to follow this working optimization process. So GitHub is sick actually. So you know, I know a lot of people don't use GitHub. A lot of people do, of course. Most people do. Well, not most people, but I've been talking to some people and it's like not everybody has been onboarded to GitHub. I'm not fully onboarded either, dude. So don't worry. Break out. Optimize, take profit range between three and twenty one. Thank you, sir. This is exactly what we wanted. This is how we want to see it. Okay. This is great. Okay. I don't want this anymore, though. I don't want this sharpened. Drawdown. Remove that results part. That results that stats part because it's not working. Okay. I like this strategy, though. 161 trades trading on I and J. Okay. This is good. This is solid. I mean, it's I'm not giving recommend. I'm never giving recommendations because I have no clue what your risk tolerance is. I'm never going to give you a bot. I'm sorry. I'm not. I give examples here. So you can see how you build your strategy into a bot. The bootcamp shows all that. I hold your hand through this entire process, dude. I couldn't make it easier for you, but I'm not going to just like, I'm not going to spoon feed anybody around here. I don't want those type of people around me at all. It makes me sick. It makes me sick. I hate those people with a passion that come to me every single day. And they're like, your moon dev whip-up try run or what strategy, what optimization, what what's the exact strategy you'd run? What's the best risk reward? Like get out of my life, dog. If you ain't working, I ain't fucking with you at all. Sorry. It is what is this? I'm not messing with you at all. If you're not playing the working, I have so many lazy people come to me. Every single day, they're like, what's the best strategy? What's the best bot to run? It's like, get the f out of here. You ain't in the game. You ain't in the game. You're never going to make it in the game. I'm sorry. I love you, but get the f out of here, dog. I think this is what FS Trent from Twitch was saying here. You can see there's like drawdowns that are bigger than 20%. How does that happen when we have a stop loss of 20%? Well, it's probably looking at the daily at some point. Hey Caribbean bro, where you from, dog? I go live every day. I go live every day. What API do I use to control your wallets, execute orders, web 3 Python library? This one I'm using a Jupiter, Jupiter API. Jupiter API. So glad you're here. Dude, great questions. Great questions. Keep the good questions coming in my God. I'm from the UK, but my background is Jamaica. That's dope, dude. I'm glad you're here. I'm glad I started going earlier because I know the UK time is a, you know, it's a little different than this East Coast time. So I was on the west for a little bit. Okay, I desperately need the data. Okay, what am I looking for? Is the question. So what I'm looking for is I'm looking for the, the best parameters here. So this strategy works. Okay, cool. That doesn't matter though. I want to optimize it. I want, no, I does matter. It does matter, but I need to see what the optimizations work. I can't see the optimizations. Still, please help. All right, let's go to the back testing up. He wide library back testing dot P Y documentation. Yo, we got somebody else in here. Bro Caribbean, that's from, that's Jamaica. He lives in Florida. He lives in Florida. I just, he just moved to Florida. I can't remember his name, but he's a homie as well. So we got another Jamaican up in here. So he's from Jamaica. Just moved to Florida. So that's dope. We got some island boys up here. I'm not in parallel PR kind of close to you. Actually, I don't know how close it is, be honest, kind of ignorant, but be like that sometimes though. It do, it do. Example strategies. Okay, back testing submodules, back testing not live. Okay, back testing not tests. Okay, API reference documentation. Okay, back testing not back testing. Maybe I don't know. Let's do opt Tim. I back test, I optimize. Okay, optimize, perfect, perfect. This is what we want to do. Wait, let's go ahead and put this piece of code in there. Yeah, yeah, yeah, this is it, dude. I can't, I can't believe I show all this stuff. I can't believe I show all this stuff, but it is what it is. And I'm happy to optimize. Let's just click optimize. Okay, methods. Excuse me. Okay, here we go. Dude, Caribbean, you're right on, bro, that's so sick. You use the exact same way, dog. It's every single day, every single day, whatever idea you got, dog. It's all here now. We have chat GPT now. This is like, I think code's a great equalizer, but dang, chat GPT low key is as well. Especially if you know how to code. Here is the documentation, documentation to back testing.py. Please update based on that. So I feel unstoppable. Like yesterday, we were building machine learning models that I were over my head, but we have chat GPT now in order to help us along the way. Caribbean says chat GPT is the new Google pretty much. Yeah, I don't even use Google anymore. I don't use Stack Overflow anymore, either. I love it. I hate the Stack Overflow. Yo, Kondern, we got a new, we got a new new newbie over here on Twitch. Welcome to the dark side. This is the right side, though. This is the right side because it makes sure everybody is on a good vibe. You got to be on a good vibe over here to get on Twitch. And it's super easy to block people, which is so, so nice. And we never have to see them again. So I'm so happy that you're here. I'm so happy that you're here. If you're true, if you're a true builder here, you will be on the Twitch side. If you're on the YouTube side, you're just trialing it out. See it. And if you have with me, seeing if you have with the topic, I'm building every single day with or without y'all, but I have the Twitch open on my side eye, so I can actually see it while I'm coding. And I see good questions. I answer good questions. YouTube, I'm sorry, B. I'm sorry, YouTube. So this is the base strategy. It's not very good, but the optimization looked really good. So I'm glad you're here. Cone, Dern, con, Dern, Cone Dern. You need to add a Dono link, Twitch or on YouTube or Dono Walla address. Appreciate your answers. Can I enroll in the bootcamp and complete it? And my own pace, absolutely seven seven seven. The bootcamp is 100% your own pace, but you're part of the family forever. So the bootcamp shows you step by step how to automate your training. Go ahead and watch that video. There's a link in the description. This is all the content and it's all self-served. You get it all immediately and you get a watch at your speed. Doesn't matter how long you take or how short it goes. Doesn't matter. It's all there. You have access to it forever. You get all the code. There's a bunch of bonuses. You get expert help. So we're here to help you the entire way. The way I looked at this was like, I needed to learn how to code and I tried to learn how to code building apps and stuff. And it was just boring, but I actually had cash on the line that I wanted to grow. So I learned how to code to automate my training and worst-case scenario. Like the average developer in the US is making 100 kit per year. So like I was like, okay, I can take a little bit of time to learn how to code and worst-case scenario. I could be at a job laughable because I would never get a job, but it was a nice little backup to me. It was like, okay, I want to automate my training and you can see this still flopped. Anyways, it was a good risk reward. You asked me. So the bootcamp is 69 bucks, so if that's too much for you, I'm sorry, dude. Okay, so here, I'm going to go ahead and copy this code here because I want to see maybe backtesting up, he wide-change things a little bit. Here, let's first get this in there. Because this is great. It optimized, but do you see the problem I'm running into? I need to see what numbers it optimized with. You know, like, okay, you optimize to find a better strategy is 406 percent return. Still buying hold, PT optimization. Oh, it switched it back to whiff, by the way. That's why I was like, what the heck? But I needed to see the data on the back end. It changed it back to whiff. That's fine. We know that I and J is they're both profitable, but whiff has been going like crazy. So it's like a little bias, you know, I'd rather trade something that is not as crazy. So I switched it to I and J, but it switched it back and that's okay for now. I'm just trying to get this optimizer to work. And while I do that, while I work with GPT to get it to work, okay, you can see this. Okay. Copy, copy, paste. I'm just going to go into circle here and that's okay. Because time is irrelevant, dude. It's literally not here. It's not real. It's not real, dude. So let's go here and say this is 528 528 test BT dot P Y. Are you live? Are you live right now? Well, I'm showing you the date. So you can know my live right now. I don't know. I don't know. Maybe you saw it later. Maybe you're late to the show. That's okay. You're not too late. You can see the date. Be okay. Let's go over here and copy this back test in. Okay. I need to get this data here. And what is that on the 15 minute? Okay. Let's get some 15 minute data. So it kind of matches. We'll see here copy path. Okay. I'm going to go ahead. This is a new back test. And why am I doing this new back test? Because for some reason, I can't get the results. I need to perform this metrics. Results, optimization results, main. We'll see. We'll see. I'm going to figure this out. I can also look through here. Google SMA crosses 93% return percentage 419 by an whole of 703. Oh. 2% bro. Come on, bro. Come on. Let's try this one. Time. Fudge. Set index of time. What is this? I actually say this says time stamp. Let's go here. Test. Okay. But this is all going to be crazy. Dot close. Oh, man. Oh, man. This is going to be tough. No, it's not going to be tough. Drop the last two columns of data. Okay. Let's do that first. Okay. It's dropped. And then we want to rename the columns to, oh, it says capitalize there for it. It's my work. Time. Where's time? Time. Mm-hmm. Time stamp, I believe. Okay. Access negative 3 is out of range. Okay. Okay. Life 15. These orders are flying. Let's read through this. Backstab the particular parameterized strategy on particular data upon initialization called backstab run to run or backstab optimize optimize strategy parameters. Return optimization. Come on, blood. It's right there. It's right there. I could have sworn I sent it to you. I could have sworn I sent it to you, but maybe not. True, Cabron, true. I want all that. I want all that with cheese. With cheese B with cheese. I'm a new, so let's go ahead here. Below, I keep getting errors trying to print out the op-diamization. Here is the documentation to follow in order to return the heat map and op-diamizations. Okay. Okay. Update the below code. Now you know how to optimize and output the heat map and keep map and and k and what B and what and what dog and what and what and optimizations. Okay. Let's see what she can do this time. I'll check the chat every once in a while. At Moondow, they'll need to tag me my dude, my boy, my moa. I got you. I got you. I just be coming back and forth. I can't code and talk at the same time, unfortunately, but someday I will be able to. But for now, I'm just going to, I'm going to respond to all messages anytime that I see AI outputting things. I didn't know how you, that you had a bootcamp. How many videos do you have? I got 9,000 videos on YouTube. The bootcamp is all the videos are listed here or the trainings at least some of our, sometimes there's more videos, but it's all listed here in the link below. Yo, it's great to see you, dog. Great to see you. Caribbean. I'm glad you're Jamaican boy living out in the UK. It's good to hear. I'll see you around. I appreciate you. And yeah, much love. 7777. I'm excited, dude. I'm excited to see you back. He says he'll be back on Twitch. Appreciate you, my god. Have a beautiful evening. I guess it's evening time over there. So stay good. Be Seaborn. Do we have Seaborn? I think we do, but let's double check, dude. Already, already. Already. Thank you, bro. Thank you. Thank you, Caribbean. All right, let's go ahead here and say this new code here. Okay, let's see if it did. Based on your request and documentation back things right here. It's the correct code to ensure the proper optimization. If you show me that one more time, dog, it's still showing me that that's sad. That's sad. A sad B. All right, let's check it out. Again, this is the bad one. We haven't optimized yet, but we'll see. We'll see if we can get it going, dude. Every single day we're getting closer and closer to our big things. I just keep stacking the alpha every single day because every single day is a new day, dude. Every single day I can work on this shoot. You can see it at least. I don't know if it's going to be helpful for you, but let's see. Let's see what you can do. Let's see what you can do, too, dude. I'm curious. Looks like we got some liquidations here on Whiff, which is crazy because it's long and short liquidation. So let's check it out. That always get tickles my, tickles my tummy when I see a long liquidation and then a short liquidation. That means people are gambling. Pretty much. Yeah, you can see somebody's shorting down here. We're shorting like here. Red bar short. Oh, I see a red bar. I'm going to short it. That's who you're trading against. So that's why I keep all this up here so we can see the kind of gamblers that we're trading against. I spend my time here with the code because for me, this trading thing is not easier either. So it's not easy for any human to go against your emotions. So I just pull myself away from it. And I spend my time back testing and finding algorithms that work in the past. Now, of course, if they work in the past, it's not guaranteed to work in the future. I'm a billionaire. 150 per annum that we sell it in order to help families travel overseas. So basically, we now sell another 3. And by going to an gig, we have several new patients who just haven't employment existed. Yo, how do we use to see this? I feel like it used to be right here. I'm going to look through some of my get up again. I feel like it used to be so, so clear. How we used to get the optimization stats? I'm not about the optimizers by hand. I'm sorry. Where did it go? Where did it go? What a stop printing all that is. Heat matte. Stop printing this stuff because that is just throwing errors. I also want to stop printing this. I want to stop printing this. We're good. This is the perfect time you'll be. Now it's doing the test. Let's scroll through these to see if there's any new tokens here. These are the new launches and the top volumes. This is top volume. This is a different one. This is tricky part of this. This tricky part of this game is people are dropping to my tokens. Scroll through with anything else. Rich. Sack. Shortcut. Pure. It's called B. It's called. I'm lowkey stuck on this part because I need to see what is the optimization. I'll take a little five minutes here. Get my thoughts together and take a little break. I'll be answering every single question that comes through Twitch every single day. Look at this. We got a new timer over here on Twitch. What up, dude? Ty. Ty realist. Ty realist. What up, bro? Where do you get your liquidation data from? This is from Binance API. The web socket. That's showing all the liquidation data. This is my sniper. This is your bird eye. It's 200 a month for bird eye. The Binance stuff is free. Thank you. This is also using bird eye to see the top tokens. I'll be back in like a few. We're going to figure the rest out of this. The rest of this out here. When I come right back, get some water. Take a bathroom break. Do your thug. Thug this one. We will be back. See you next time. I just know that it's crazy. Like on updates. On updates. My text. And this is crypto people, of course. Text. What's up. And telegram. Our. Pop in. And on down days. They are silent. There's got to be some sort of API that we can measure chats. I don't know though. That's the thing. That's the tricky part. Can we get a telegram API? Yes. I believe. What's up? I don't know. I message probably not. But that's an interesting indicator when it comes to trading. Because if the chats per hour or a minute are like, yeah, probably four hours. Probably four hours per. Four hours. We can tell you the daily regime. It's kind of like reading the emotions. You know, that's just the. Whatever be my thoughts don't really matter that much. I'm just building and seeing what happens. Okay. So let's go ahead here and say. I'm called from Twitch says I already got a 21,000 percent ROI. I just tuning in to your streams. Joining the dark side was worth it. Seven, seven, seven. Appreciate everybody here. Appreciate you. Sam the one. Sorry for the delay there. Getting re-upped with energy water. Anyway, the question seems to be should I learn about your Python before joining your bootcamp? And no, you don't have to do. You can I show you how to code and Python. Damn, this Pepe thing is Pepe Trump. Oh, crazy. Sorry, yesterday I think, but maybe it was a different one. Okay, so. Oh, nice little pullback here. See what's going on with the big boys here. The video is going crazy. That's wild. But no, I teach how to code and Python here in the bootcamp. Three hour training. If you're brand new, I'd watch it. Shoot. I might even watch it three times. Let's say you're on speeds, so do it when you want to. And then there's great books I recommend in the bootcamp to teach you how to code and Python as well. I think it's important to learn from multiple different sources. But to be honest, the coding and Python part, that's all free on YouTube from everybody. There's so many different cool personalities of developers that are teaching how to code and Python. So, you know, just type in Python learn Python and that would be cool. I would do it at the same time, you know, go through go through the bootcamp and this should teach you Python enough to know Python for our coach. And that's why I like it personally. I like learning this way, but either way, do both. Winning out do both, that is what I'd say. I teach how to code in Python, so you'll know how to code by the end of the bootcamp. And if you get to like day three or four and you're still rusty on it, or like still not fully understanding it, I would watch this video a couple times. And I just teach the stuff that in Python that's needed, like, I don't like school too much for learning code. And if you can afford to go to school and all that good stuff for college and Python, but it's more drawn out and you learn more theory. I don't know what I don't know though, right? So, I'm focused on Algotrain and Automate My Trading and finding out when the markets. So, I have a unique set of Python skills. And that's what I focus on every day. So, yes, and to answer your question in the bootcamp, yes, I teach you how to code in Python. But just remember that it's from a bias of, hey, I'm trying to build bots. I'm trying to build back tests. So, that's good and bad. I mean, it just depends where you're trying to go with your Python. So, that's that. Hope that answered your question for you. Alright, so we're still working on this return optimizations true thing. But what I want to do here is go through and see if I can find a difference in one of my, one of my githubes. Because right now we can see here, and I'm starting to feel like it was just part of the day that like deprecated something. Heat map. Okay, heat map is what we need, dude. So, heat map, take profit. Okay, heat map columns, take profit and stop loss. But if I didn't have the columns there. Okay, this is the original before optimization. That one doesn't matter. I mean, it matters, but it doesn't matter too much. Oh, I can't get into it. I gotta be logged into my github. Okay, am I all snap? I think I didn't answer any of the, oh, I did. Okay. It's like, did I not turn my mic back on? That was funnest, funnest, funnest, funnest, funnest, but I did. So, I've got all of these, I'll go through, a lot of backtests. Just a few months ago. I'll break up. 611% return. ADX indicator. Okay, optimize. I'll use the option, I'm looking for the offer decisions. But it's me. Oh, it's me cause I still have it here. But. I'm just gonna print heat map. How about that? Cause she's tripping to be honest. I don't need map lot live or none of that. I don't know why I'm even listening to her. Sometimes I get too reliant on AI, you know? And that's gonna happen is like, oh, yeah, you got a brain too though, bro. You got a brain too. There's a neural network in there. It's for real, real, real. Okay, I'm just looking to see if there's any, you know, just some backtests with optimization in here. Optimization results. You can see here. I just print the optimization results. Okay, the results. Maybe it's because I have double results. Yeah, maybe that's it. I think I'm gonna get rid of these stats here. Well, let's do one thing at a time, one thing at a time. I'm gonna let this one be finished and then I'm gonna maybe the air is coming because I run it twice, right? Yeah, that's gotta be it. That's gotta be it. And it's not showing me the exact optimization. So it's nice to have the optimized results here. And that's cool, but I need to know like, okay, what are, what's the take profit? What's the stop loss or else it's not really, doesn't do anything for me. You know what I'm saying, doc? Okay, this one didn't do it and that's okay. I'm gonna go ahead and first off, I can't get rid of all this stuff deleted. I don't even want it in here anymore. I don't even want it anymore. Let's say BT dot run. I'm looking at this one now because we got optimized here. BT dot back test. I think I'm gonna delete all that. Whoa, peace. Then we have the opt stats, the heat map. We're doing a range. We're looking at equity final. Can you see this? Yeah, you can see this, right? Hold it over a little bit. Do you have to drop what? Empty. Okay, do you have to optimize? Come on, blood. You got a big old screen. You got a TV set here. I can't believe I left this place. Oh my god. I'm so happy to be back. Sometimes you got to go do real life things. At least we got the bots rolling V. That's a good thing. But I really like to make for progress. I know we've been streaming. I know we've been going. We keep going every single day. It's just once you're in your environment. I feel like things amplify big time. Back. Back. I know I never left. But you know how that is. All right. So we get the back test going into results. We call ours results and set the back test. If we're passing in. Maybe that's why my guy. What is this? Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. So we're doing the back test here. Back test. Okay. Passing in the cash. Okay. Perfect. Optimization results right here. We have heat map is true returning heat map. Okay. What is this? I need to read stuff. Bro. It says run the back test again with best parameters. I don't want that at all. I'm on cuz that's me. That's me. That's my bad. It's all good though. You're here. You're here at the perfect time because I will. I'm going to be able to do it. I'm going to be able to do it. You're here at the perfect time because I will go ahead and make little simple errors over and over again. So I'm just a human dude. Just a human just like you and I love it because I thought people were wizards in this industry. Just like me you do. They just worked a little bit harder. Maybe not even harder. Just work that like. Oh, maybe there is a chance that I can automate my trading. You know what I'm saying? Got a better mentality maybe. I don't know. 777 everybody in chat. I'm here live on the twitchy twitch. I'm going to be able to do it. Let's keep going through these. It's about to be done. Yeah. I want to see what the new token with the top volume is. It's top volume here on Solana for the day. The last hour actually. So it's a little better in my opinion. These are new launches here. Oh my god. This isn't. Oh, it's like duplicate. Okay. Here's the peak here. Or the equity curve. You can see. I guess I can see the old thing. There we go. This is it dude. This is what I was looking for. The take profit and the stop loss. I'm fine. It's okay. Passing lists for formats of date time with deprecating a bokeh. Three. Okay. So that wasn't even our real back to us. Oh my goodness. Hide all warnings. So I get out. I get these out there. Is that the right thing to do probably not. So you can see this one had a return of 406%. It kind of looks the same to the on is. What did we print down here? So we printed the optimization stats. And the he-map. Okay. It is what it is. It looks like it came out with the same results. With a 3% stop loss. 3 and 20. About 3 and 3. Or 20 and 16. 21. 23,000. Wait. Wait a minute. 95,000. It shows 100,000. Some fishies going on here. Because this is 23,000 here. Did it lose money maybe? No, the return is 406%. Final equity. Peak equity is that. This is the final equity. 506,000. Oh, this is percentage. Got it. Sorry. I was like tripping. Wait, wait. Is it percentage? 163,000. Can you describe this he-map for me? Remember this is the stop loss ranging from 3 to 20%. Why access? I don't know. I don't know. 3 to 20%. Why access? Represent the take profit percentage between 3 and 20%. Each cell in the he-map corresponds to a combination of take profit and stop loss percentages. But what is this number? Because it used to be the final amount. But 23, 114 is much lower than the peak or the final equity. The value within each cell indicates equity final, which is the final equity achieved by the strategy using a respective take profit and stop loss combination. That's a big difference, B. For example, in the top left corner, combination of 3 and 3. So this is, I'm thinking correctly here. That's why I'm tripping this because it goes 23,144. As you move to different cells, the equity final values change based on the different combinations of take profit and stop loss. The roadmap suggests that as both take profit and stop loss increase, the equity final tends to increase indicating that certain higher combinations of take profit and stop loss indicate better real yielding results. The best equity final observed is 212. For the combination of take profit equals 19. The highest equity final can count any together. So there's just some sort of error here and I'm going to try to explain it to GPT, which will inherently explain it to you. So above is my code that produced the below, the attached back test results. Please let me know why the heat map shows best 212, 375 when the stats show. 406. And then also, I guess this is annualized more time, that's right, because this is an infold you 4046. So this returns those 406, which should be based off of this infold here, the 20 take profit 10% stop loss. But then this down here shows this is the best one, which is 202,000, but this shows 500,000 as the ending. When the shows, 566, 185, please explain that to me and how we can fix it and how we can fix it. The different optimization process and actual find the strategy. Here's a detailed explanation of potential subs of fix it. Heat map, the heat map presents the results of the optimization process. Each cell in the heat map represents the equity final for a specific amount for a specific take profit and stop loss. The value 212, 375 corresponds to the highest equity final achieved among all tested combinations using optimization process. Final stats, the final stats show 506 come from the running the strategy with the best found parameters from the optimization. These stats are obtained by running the strategy on the entire data set using the optimal take profit. The optimization might have used a different subset of data, or the process might have involved certain constraints or conditions that differ from the final run on the entire data set. Running the strategy on the entire data set with optimal parameters might yield different results due to variations in market conditions over the entire period overfitting or data specificity. It's possible that the optimization process overfits to a specific period or conditions set of conditions that don't generalize as well when applied to the entire data set. Calculation differences. Ensure consistency. Reexamine the optimization process. Use optimized parameters for the final run debugging and logging. Do this crazy again. Honestly, I'm going to try it. It has all that information, but I'm going to go right back to it. It fails. Alright, so it's optimizing now. And then it's going to run again. Doesn't show the heat map anymore. I don't know if this is going to work. But we'll see. Up stats. Take profit. It hasn't been working so I don't know why I think it's going to work. It's not. No offense. Not to put bad vibes out there. Because that's mad bad vibes. 777. Appreciate everybody here. No attribute. I like this max trade cycle. Okay, so as I thought that was the case, that's the case. What I want to do here is double check that's 100,000. It's going to work. I'm going to look at this. I just feel like I'm missing somewhere. Do it. It's my bad. You Okay. Run it just because we got to have something running. But I'll optimize it and see here. So plot the progression of the latest run. If results is provided, it should be a particular result. If plot equity is true, the resulting plot will contain an equity initial cash. Plot return. Plot P.A.L. I'll show the profit loss. If plot volume, the resulting plot will contain a profit loss. If plot volume, the resulting plot will contain a plot drawdown. Return optimization is set to true and method skipped up in addition. And maybe he bent. This is profitable. 20 and 20. This is my hesitation. Let's use this information. Let's use this information. Let's use this information to test if this is legit. What am I doing? Copy. I'll keep this up so we can see it. And then we're going to be able to change it. This is the way. Okay, I make this so there's no optimization. Recode D above. So there is no optimization. Just use this. Whatever it said here, it said the best is that. 2019. 2019. Okay. I mean, I think it's this really. No, it's not that. Let's say new. 528. Bt. Single. I don't know what. I don't care about the name. I don't care about the name. Sorry. Okay, Bt dot plot. Okay, this should be the same strap. And the only thing they should have changed is this. Okay, this is just going to run it once and it should show exactly what we said before. And I don't know what it is. I mean, it's still profitable. But buying holds up 10x. And the thing that I'm looking at here is this. This optimization here, if we look at it. This optimization said that the 20 take profit. And we just hard coded that in. It said that was going to return 212,000. And what did it return? 212,000 cob wrong. So it's not wrong. But the thing that's wrong is this. Where did this come from? This one. 406 percent. You know? Because that came from this optimization, which. Well, let's turn the stop loss to 10 percent. Well, answer your own questions. That's it. We'll figure it out. We always wiggle our way through it. Returns negative 11 percent on that one. So it's not like it was using this data right here. Well, let's go ahead and put the exact one that said. Says the best is 3 and 3. But it says 23,000. That's why I don't understand. Like, why are you going to tell me that? No, it doesn't say necessarily the best. No, it doesn't say that. It doesn't say that necessarily the best. And you figure out how to update my heat map really. So I think we go back to this. We got how to work with this heat map out there. Return optimization. I want that to be true. That's it. It's really it. That's all I got to do in my mind. But you know, that hasn't been correct yet. My mind has not been correct yet. So while we found a couple of good stress is what it is. Okay, I showed it. I showed all the code. You got it all dark. So line in optimize will opt return optimization true only if methods skipped opt. If skipped opt, how do we use skip opt? So okay, optimize strategy parameters to find to an optimal combination results returns results PD dot series of the best run maximize is a string key from the back test run. We returned result series or a function that accepts this series object and returns the number the higher the better by default the method maximizes van Farbs system quality number method is the optimization method. So currently two methods are supported grid, which does an exhaustive or randomized search over the cardigan products of parameter combinations. Skip opt, which finds close to optimal strategy parameters. Okay, I see. Method grid. Method is grid. Maximize is that so let me try this. We can't have grid has to be the other one. Scott. Gama. Oh. It's K opt. It's maybe using SK learn. Need package SK optimize. Pipp install SK kit. This is new. I've never gone this way. It used to show I swear I'm not just losing in here. It used to show the best value with. I'll do in this step. Know that for a fact. Whatever it doesn't matter in here today. So that's all that matters be. Whatever the rules of the game on care. I'm just going to keep playing every single day. Pipp install SK. Okay. Okay, T flow. We're in there. That should be good. Thought we just did that. Didn't we do. Maybe I need to restart the interpreter. Probably not though. Usually not. Pipp install SK opt. Okay. Pipp install SK. Psych it optimize. Okay. Um. Do I have to import it maybe. Import. S. No. I don't think that's it. Let's go ahead and keep trying. So I'm going to reset the interpreter real quick. Just see if it can do that. Okay. Okay. And we'll see the other one. The other one is grid. This isn't going to work now. Okay. Okay. So we're getting good with that. So now it's going to grid search. But this is the search it's always done. Okay. We're turn optimizations true. The method is skip opt in addition to a result series. If you want reproducible optimization results set random state to a fixed integer. This is concerning this additional keyword permanent. So optimize. So it's set down here to look a little bit more in the plot heat maps. So that's our optimized strategy. Here's the heat map. We were here. That's good. Good. But this is still the question. How do we get here? This is a 500,000. Final equity. This down here is not. It's 200. So I'm trying to find the discrepancy right there between the two. And. We'll see. We'll see. We're going to figure it out eventually. I will. So let's go read a little bit more about this plot heat maps here. Plot of grid of heat maps one for every pair of parameters in heat map. This map is a series. When parameter heat map is true when projecting the end-dimensional heat map on to 2D. The values are aggregated by the max. It's going to be tweaked with an ag parameter. Okay. So what I'm going to do here is this first off. We'll make this a little faster. That's the first thing I'm going to do. And then I'm going to go ahead and say this plot. I'm going to do. BT dot plot. That's fine. I also want to BT. BT dot plot heat map. Start. I need a plume off. That's why I need to do. Yo, is this up to advanced for you? I go over. I teach you everything. I teach you how to code. I teach you how to back test. I teach you how to build bots. Literally everything you need in order to be a fully automated trader. I teach in the bootcamp. Bootcamp step is step by step videos. Then you can watch it anytime. So click the link below if you do want to learn from me. Otherwise, just keep coming back to the streams. And I will keep showing you absolutely everything that I'm working on. The streams is sometimes I'm working on things that are a little ahead of you. And if you want to see exactly how to build everything else, then just all you got to do is jump in the bootcamp. Or keep coming back here either either option be. So I'm going to say plot. Bd.twat. Heat maps. Is that a thing? Or maybe it's opt boots? Maybe it's heat map. That would make more sense. Maybe that's not a thing either. With projecting the end dimensional. To do layout maps. Feel like it has to be BT but maybe. BT optimize. Above are the directions from docs to plot the heat map. Can you show me how to do it with the code below? Please. Lots of heat maps. I guess this AI could probably do it too though. See what they do first. And then. No dice, dude. Final is 409%. So this is clearly going based off of. This is new. Okay. Now we can see it. 309%. What did we change? That's what's going on. I'm not seeing the full heat map. That's making sense. Is this called heat map? But you can see this one's 409%. 409. This is overoptimized for sure but it's just interesting to see. Because if we can find a section here between 7 and 19%, that's a great return. Okay. We got it. What was happening is we weren't able to see the full amount of variables because there's too many really. Okay. This is good. We're on the right path. Now this shows the 4087 final 409. So that's a little weird. 39.3. Oh, look at this. Nice. It shows take profit 14 and 17. So up there it shows us. So if we go to 14 here, 14 and 17, 409, that's why the final is 409%. Yeah. Okay. All right. All right. So I like the strat. I like the strat. But remember the process to automate your trading is this. This is the process I use at least. That's why I haven't even built a bot yet. We spent multiple hours now building out backtests trying to figure out what type of breakout bot we want to build. Which is great because look, we also missed this volatility, which you probably would have got liquidated on. Well, I would have if I was handwriting that's for sure. So I stay away from it. And even when building bots like jumping to bots is the number one thing you're going to want to do is like I want to build a bot and have it done in the next 30 days. But in reality, the time, as you can see from what I've done today, been here for, I don't know, three and a half hours. And I haven't built any bots today because the bot is the easy part. This is the hard part, the research in the back testing, billion in the edge, being able to decide how have your bot decide what regime you're in and what time. Because markets tend to train in regimes, turning up word, downward sideways. And there's more, but that's up to you to figure out. Your strategy up to you figure out. Nobody showed me how to build all of this when I got started. So I just show everything I'm doing each day. And today is this yesterday was machine learning. Every day is probably going to be somewhat the same, somewhat different, you know, worked on this neighbor project for like two months straight. But I go live every single day because I believe cozy or equalizer and nobody shares this information. There's more people out there. So if you do have the courage to come up here and code live, please do email me. You got the courage to code live and build these bots live. Show me an email. Because there needs to be more of us out here that are showing this showing that like regular people can jump over this industry too. And you back test today and back tests are not the future. So don't let people cap to you. Don't let them say that, yo, this is a back test. It's going to be super duper profitable in the future. It's not guaranteed at least. It's a good indicator. That's all to get indicator of future results past results are good indicator of future results. Not guaranteed depends on the pattern depends on the strat depends on so many things. That's why I stay away from the cash being I'm never going to lead you to come to one of my videos saying like, oh, look how much I made yesterday. Or look how much I made during the stream. Look how much I made in the last four hours. Like, nah, that's not me. It's not me. I would have too many kids up in here trying to get rich quick. And it's not a quick journey. Not a quick journey at all. Just like anything else. This is a business. You got to attack it viciously with some sort of procedure every single day. My procedure is right on the screen right now. And the proof is in the pudding I come back every single day and I'm showing you every single piece of code every single day. I'm just tired of the dudes up in New York in the big offices that think this is or not even think maybe they do think it maybe they do think it's only for like super smart math geeks and whatnot. But it's and that's why they don't do it themselves and that's why they hire it. I think they do. So it's nothing against them. Everybody hype up like quant and all this like algorithmic trading to be only for super smart people that want to harvest and I didn't go to either row. I didn't learn how to code and cause I didn't learn any of that. I learned it three and a half years ago. Am I the best in the world? Of course not, bro. Of course. Of course. I need to do what it takes to become the best yes and I'm going to show you the whole path. So I don't know it's your choice your time. I appreciate those that kick it with me seven seven seven sending the love to you every single day every single day dude. I want to go ahead and test a couple more data sources here on this back best because we already saw this one. Okay. Interesting little quirk if you ask me when it comes to when it comes to this. I want to see maybe if I open this up to be taller. It will output more but that's a weird little thing that they cut off data like that. I need my data be I need my data. Let's check this on near which I have no. I don't even know what near is. But the reason I'm doing this is because of that reason. You know. I've heard of near of course. Hard of everything not everything but I study this stuff be. Okay. I made it super tall so it should print everything out but maybe not I don't know. Okay. So this one is twice as profitable as the buy and hold with half of the exposure time. 88% win rate. 35 trades. Not a lot of trades. No. Not a lot of trades for sure. What is 1000 this keeps popping up on my screen. Oh. It's got to be maybe. Okay. So this one is profitable too. It's profitable on what's the best one. You can see this peak equity is not the best. I'm not going to be able to do that. I'm not going to be able to do that. All right. So this one's profitable too. It's profitable on what's the best one. You can see this peak equity. I'm looking for 125. 1.25. These all plus five. Yeah. 1.25 right here. So 14 and 19. Okay. But that's not that's not the full story dude. It's not the full story because remember what our problem is here. It's so weird that it does that but we'll see here right now. I'm going to open it up so it tests more. This is dope though. I feel like for tomorrow. I'm going to do that tomorrow. I'm going to build the bot tomorrow because the bot's not going to take long. Because this is the hard part. I'm going to let it optimize here. Why optimize? Let me go ahead and search through these new tokens. There's all the new launches on Salana. El gato. Pepe more angry boy. MGA. Hey. Copa, Merlica. Nothing, nothing, nothing really making me laugh or giggle. Catch my eye. Turtle kind of cute though. Bitcoin on sole. That's funny. I bet there's a lot of those though. Yeah, so it's not that funny. Here's the optimization. Okay. Yo, the peak percentage up was 2000%. 61 trades. Return percentage is 1293. And this one's 1393. Yo, look, it tells us right here. That's great. That's great. Up here. Look. So we figured out our problem out. Okay. Let's do this. This is new because I feel like change it. Didn't it? It used to be super clear on what the top ones were. But we haven't even printed out the serial out the e-map part. So I'm going to put it like a readmeat. No, I'm just going to put it here. I'm glad we figured that out answers answers. In the URL, it shows the best performing for back tests. Yo, Z2, what a blood. Glad you're back. Okay. Best performing for back tests. Also, I can print out smaller ranges for the op die, my op die, myization. This will enable me to see the best performers. All right. So we're back testing the strategy and it looks good. I'm going to go ahead here and zoom in. I'm going to make the optimization a little smaller now because then I can go ahead and zoom in. Yo, 777 everybody. So glad you're here. Let's go ahead here and see if this one works. Oh my goodness, what happened. Let's check it out. Okay. It's going to take a little less time here to optimize, but still take some time. Breathe. Breathe. Breathe. These are the top volume tokens and so on as I just like to scroll through. That's it. Optimize away. Optimize away. Optimize away. Here we go. Let's go ahead and zoom in. Let's go ahead and zoom in. I just do this process on loop. That's my strategy at least for the next, I don't know. I'm going to get rich overnight. I'm going to get rich overnight. I'm going to get rich overnight. I'm going to get rich overnight. Let's go ahead and zoom in. I'm going to get rich overnight. I'm going to get rich overnight. Let's go ahead and zoom in. Let's go ahead and zoom in. Let's go ahead and zoom in. Let's run it on this one now. There might be some other stuff I want to do down here. No, there's not. The heat map displays the results of optimizing the trading strategy with different combinations. This is our heat map. This is the heat map of the backtask. The heat map displays the results of optimizing the trading strategy with different combinations of take profit and stop loss. Here's how to interpret it. X axis is a stop loss. Stop loss. We got a new one. We got a new one. We got a new one. We got a new one. We got a new one. We got a new one. We got a new one. Dark is bad. The closest to yellow is good. The plot shows closest to yellow is best. The most yellow is 7 and 20. This is awesome. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The optimal combination of take profit and stop loss is the same. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. Where did that other backtabs go? Let's check it out. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. The heat map displays the output of the heat map. Let's go ahead and finish this backtabs in a lasso. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. What was the optimization? The best one here is 201% return. 197% The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. The best one here is 201% return. You are supposed to be building things that other people can't build. You are supposed to be building things that other people can't build. You are supposed to be building things that other people can't build. It's like 95% this part. It's on me to lean heavier into this. I need to train all the exchanges. I teach it all on the bootcamp if you want to learn it. I don't expect you to trust me or whatever. I don't need you to trust me or I don't need you to trust me. This is the bootcamp or watch every YouTube video. Attacking the same goal as you end me and then you also get help along the way So if you ever have any questions right there for you is 100% money back guarantee because like I said This this bootcamp is for you It's just to answer your questions These streams are for you as well I'm speaking through my code which is a little bit harder than saying on the couch, but I think it's gonna help more people I believe cozy grade equalizer at least it was for me It was the final piece that I needed to be a to be a full stack really entrepreneur and If you're a trader you're an entrepreneur so Why use your skill set to click buy and sell It's a waste of time Especially if it's not fun or stressful to you or you're going through emotions Yo Christian hey dude Christian says bro It's impressive what I learned to watch you when I watch you. Thank you my man. Yo. Thank you, too I never been a coder, but I've been able to Use AI assistants that's dope so you kind of are and then rink gosh you me what up dude how are you? Deep reinforcement learning my opinion and why don't you create a pro bot yet? I'm not sure what a pro bot is but You're supposed to build something that others can't build and go into machine learning right well everybody can use machine learning as well We were actually building stuff with ML yesterday So it's the right thought for sure But all these models are available machine learning is really about feature engineering. It's not about the model It's not about a secret model somebody's using we all have access to them It's about what features are you inputting into that model really so let's see what this said this said 201 But I want to look at the histogram here It's good to have you here. It's good to have you here rink 297 297 297 okay, this is working perfectly this just led me to the most optimized Backtest possible that is insane be that is insane. I showed you all the code the entire thing. I always do dude Much love to you There's so much good in the future Tomorrow is gonna be crazy. I hope you're here But this is all Everything to 297 from 100 it matches with the back tests. We've tested the strategy over and over again Okay, it is what it is. It's actually not that hard of a strategy, but Is it about making a complex strategy? Or is it about generating alpha that's the question Every market has different regimes So one of those regimes is a bull market. I'm not saying we're in a bull market by any means But today I'm gonna build out a breakout bot. We have tested a few backtests here to see the actual results of a breakout bot And now we're gonna go ahead and we're gonna implement those into an actual trading bot. So If you're new here, you might not know the step-by-step process I take my name is moon dev I code every single day here live because I believe codes are great equalizer and if I show it then you'll know what I'm doing This is how you automate your trading There is how I automate my trading a lot of people just want to jump right to bots and start building bots But I personally don't think that's the right way to do it I think the best way to do it is the research strategy spend your time here and the research and the back testing phase It's free to do this part So that's why it's amazing and it's where all the alpha is generated You have to see if it's actually profitable in the past if your strategy actually works in the past If it works in the past it's much more likely working in future, but it's not guaranteed It's not guaranteed. Okay, we have we've already done this so we've already researched and backtests in the last couple days here and you can see here. This is a back test. Let's see what it does See how it returns You can see the peak equity here. Let's go ahead and see what the actual return is here You can see the return is 21,000 percent the buying hold is 1200 percent We were looking into this though. We were looking at some optimizations You know these results are a little high in my opinion 21 21,000 percent is a little high, but What I'm gonna do here is we've already looked at this for multiple different Symbols as you can see here. This is using I and J the other one was using with I think with is a little misleading because it's kind of a Survivorship bias. I mean, it's one that's done well with out-of-trading bot So I'm gonna optimize this strategy or I've already optimized it a bit and we've done all the back testing Remember the process is this don't run to a bot right away Make sure to back test and make sure it works in the past if it works in the past It's much more likely to work in the future So we're gonna build this bot out here today Using one of these strategies and I think I'm just gonna go with this strategy because this is the one that we've Kind of tested multiple times on multiple symbols and we've seen that it's pretty robust and it's a pretty simple strategy I'm gonna go ahead and get this I'm gonna save this. Let's see. We'll just save it here and Then we'll go ahead here and we'll make a bot up here. So I'll say five Five thirty here Five thirty breakout bot.p. Y Okay, let's go ahead and look through a couple of these files here because we have so many cool bots here and I'm looking for a scanner So Let's read through some of these maybe we have one that says scanner here skew longer bento b-watt Market maker order book multiple pie Access multiple pie Oh, this is what we're looking at actually these are the optimizations here So you can see 297 so it looks like we want to use a 3% take profit and a 80% stop loss That's what it says here at least 16 and 7 we might use 16 and 7 Let me use 16 and 7 here So this optimization shows This op-di-mization shows to Use a 7% TP and What was that stop loss here? I'm looking around the yellow yellow means more profitable was these 15 16 17 look good so 16 maybe Remember things don't match up perfectly on the when you run it live so always be careful there I'll explain all these data sources on my screen here in a second. These are the orders coming in on Binance You Nice folks we have nice folks here a data loop one 30 market maker. Let's look let's look through some of these Because I want to find one of my old functions here that essentially allows us to Find the symbol that we want to trade automatically By the way, I have this new thing top meme game.com and it shows all the top volume memes and I'm gonna do a hundred dollar giveaway today. So a hundred dollar giveaway to anybody that goes through and shares their top four memes I'm gonna pick one person here at the end of the stream. So I'll keep mentioning that we're giving a hundred dollars USD C to one person who shares their top four and I'll show you how to do that So I need to pick my foot for okay, of course this shark But be there um Cheeks and What else I missed it all right, I think it's some with Okay, so this is how you share it in order to enter the giveaway and I'll be tagged here So I'll know you shared it and you just share it like that and then you're entered the giveaway for a hundred books USDC and I'll send it at the end of the day The end of the stream. So just share your thing Your top four good top meme game.com share your top four and then Then you'll go ahead and enter yourself to win a hundred dollar USDC by the end of this stream I'm gonna keep looking through these this code here I'm 30 market maker You It's a lot of good stuff in here order book combined uh Data frame Multi breakout bot Data from i relinquished market maker I thought we built something similar to this before Matter-factor, I know we did I just have it on my server. I just don't want to go grab it Don't want to log in I'd rather just pull from here. So I'm gonna look at my uh My g-hub as well g-tub Hyperlegweed hyper You Oh look at this This is really good notes actually You Dang I should write really good notes here like this all the time You Back to the tested with and found the 15-minute crosses dank Oh my goodness Okay, let's go ahead and build up the scanner first. It's just this build a scanner here Let's build that and then um let's look at our nice funcs first Let's do that because I might already have something like that. I know I have it. I just My Not the best of the organization to be honest, but that's okay So okay, we'll get better. So I'm just gonna look through this nice funcs file here. Ask bid Okay, let me order Adjust size and leverage adjust leverage get open high low close volume process data df Process data df calculate v-wap Define demands on skip position Get position and max positions Cancel orders voying despite kill switch You know close fetch candles snapshot calculate sma get latest sma close all positions Calculate atr calculate range should we quote orders Calculate bollinger's calculate linear regression linear regression bollinger OB data So okay, let's just build a scanner scanner For top uh toggies uh top volume today Okay, let's go ahead and um open up here And remember I got the the $100 giveaway going on all you gotta do is pick your top four here on top meme games Share it on twitter by clicking share like this it'll tag me so I know that you shared it and at the end of the stream I will give away $100 USDC It's actually gonna be at a random point in the stream probably gonna be in a Little bit of time whenever I'm done. So um, I'm not sure when this is gonna be done But it is what it is so we're here we're presence and we are going to keep going So I want to go ahead here and first off let's go ahead and Get all symbols. So How do we get all symbols It's not too hard Account so we want to get into our account of course We need to import all this stuff So we have the trading strategy that we're doing. This is a strategy that we're doing Okay Actually, let's see here Optimization is a strategy that we are going to do Should put on our remealus do that and let's let's be super organized again So Say 530 here We pivoted it on over to the Solonist sniper stuff. That's why there's a little bit of a break here A lot of stuff I kept running out of stuff We changed on but I've got my my bot style then really at this point. So I'm just building new stuff in order to Create new future alpha One Building a scanner for hyper liquid Because we have a profitable Act test that we want to implement Okay, but what is that profitable backtests It's definitely the i and j1 right Question is where did I just write that Because this one is profitable you can see exposure time is nice 31 It's not a lot of trades, but that's good You Can I just write that It's gonna be in here Here it is So this is the optimization we're gonna use So I'm gonna say 26 Oh, that's not the one bro This is not the one this is from 26 They bet they BT optimization single BT test Let's get rid of all of these other noises here BT that nice films were working on that okay So this is the one we're gonna optimize for You know whiff did well here I just don't want to over optimize the first one I showed you was like 12 000% Richard but it was on whiff so it's just like it's a little bias or other or something that's not that So and I want to build the scanner out again essentially because You Could we need to So with four hour just gonna quickly look through all of these files here Because I feel like I've built this before so let me just do a quick look So adjust leverage cancel orders bid I mean if it's in here it's gonna be there's gonna be a function at the top Because you can see I'm working for my nice funks while Where the most part So if it's not in the Top part here is then I think we just lost it I can look at my server as well because I know it's running there I should just do that honestly Hey, I'm gonna do that I post it like trying to write it again You can definitely make a scanner again for sure but Okay, I'm gonna jump into my server real quick man just do that because save a ton of time probably You You Just logging in here so sorry I'm I got ghost for a second, but you know how it goes Yeah, I'm in there now, so It's not forget To come back To mount dark mode back now hey, how are you? I hope you're doing well some some some much love to you We just had a hackathon the last couple of days I built this top four meme thing So if you share your top four memes here Then you get entered to win a hundred R USDC You just got to pick your four memes before the time runs out and then click share here And then it will tag me as well, so I'll know that you entered and Give me a hundred dollars USDC here today To one lucky winner Not everybody So now I'm just looking through my server here and Oh there it is Yes My My god Server with open read trading symbol There it is my guy Ha ha ha mo foe That's it my god. This is why we coach because we can be lazy AF Let's go ahead and try it So this is our 530 Breakout bot 530 Let's just call this trending Scanner and let's work on this because I want to update it. There's some things I wanted to update here Okay, sit we're in there You can see that we're calling hyper liquid here And we're catching the snapshot data here And then we're calculating the four-hour change And we're calculating the SMA analyze tradable tokens here Then the main here So you have all the code here Need to change these trending HL trending Okay, this is sick me Um, I need to change some of the file paths first So let's make a data folder here because this is again ugly. Oh here we go Copy path Copy relative path please So you're seeing all the code here just because I'm a thug and I share everything here So We'll be love it Data trending nice copy pace right there Data data data Okay, so tradable to two CSV two CSV data.txt. Okay, boom, boom Does that all look good here now? We're gonna see if this works But then I want to update it because I want to find more stuff. I want to find I want to find trending based off of other things as well Oh, I like this little cat here actually So you get a hundred bucks if you share your top four or you get a chance to 100 dollars USDC if you share your top four here Anytime during this stream today. It's got to be during the stream. It's got to be during the stream because Um, we just built this in a hackathon this week and this is all of the top trending tokens on Solana So it's I think it's super helpful to have I like Kermit as well actually We'll remove this I'll update my trending here every every little while because I literally I built this for myself Because you remember I was looking at this information Before the top volume through text, but like that's not the playby It's not the play So go ahead and share your top four and you enter the win Okay, total volume has to be over two million Let's go ahead here and what's it going to print out? Okay, this should print out some stuff running an algo Running out go here perfect. So here's all of the symbols they have Dang, I'm so happy I spent a little bit of time to look for this So you can see the four-hour change for BTC is night and point nine seven percent Adam point two points one five Maddick one point seven three Dewey DX two point two five Solana one point six six Avax three point six seven one point one eight So it's calculating the change so it's trying to find the ones that do well essentially Or has have done one the last four hours Okay, so here's a good time for me to explain what's going on here Down the bottom is my sniper if this is my sniper rifle I'm going to restart it just in case because Head Final sniper we got to go in there. This is my sniper here. It's obviously broken right now So I need to fix it line one and final sniper dot main dot p-y Ed We'll get in there and fix that right now That's my sniper usually these are the liquidations coming through so I track all liquidations These are the major liquidations. These are the big orders and these are the major orders so you can see like a three point four million dollar order there um And yeah, this is the my meme tracker for the Solana memes. I just track it through there now Because I want to see what's popping every single day and if you share one at your top four then uh you get entered it once So let's go out here and say final So last sniper I had a major major air with my um We were working on the things yesterday We were working on the sniper or no we weren't working on the sniper but then I I cd to enter the sniper for some reason because I had to get the data And then I I've f something up bad It was really sad. Oh, okay, so this easy head. Yeah I don't know what I did But it is what it is 9 160 Come on blood What is this How you finna put that stuff in there. I don't know What is all of this actually? I think babe What is this stuff What is this dude? This is not even part of my sniper Wow We made some big errors here Dang I'm glad I caught that huh 822 what is going on with this dude See my sniper I told you my sniper got f'd up yesterday Of something I don't know what see this and stuff what is this like what the heck So weird so weird I did some sort of like I don't know Did some weird thing though like I can't even explain it see I can't even explain what I did Unfortunately, you can see this is still looking through the four hour change of things. So it's looking for the highest trender While that is working. I want to go ahead and update this function here to be able to change the analyzed tokens to See the trending okay, where is it? Tratable analyze tokens Sfesh snapshot for our change using for our change Calculate for our change Once they update this code and where we're gonna say that you know who where where we're gonna go We're gonna go to our girl Luxy are you awake today Leaves update the above so that we can ask in any Our Change Like one hour two three And even 15 minutes 30 minutes Let's see if we can do that because that would be pretty pretty clutch honestly You can see this outputted it for all of them So what it did is it went and looked at to see what is the most trending token right now What are the trending most most trending tokens? Okay, and then what did it do? I think it saved it somewhere Tratable so it writes to the trading trending trading symbol Dot txt 2 csv data Print tradable Honestly, it doesn't look like it saved it but um It's a little weird Maybe I need to make the file no You I like this be anymore Data tradable You Copy path Trading some of the txt let's just add it in there Dot symbol dot txt okay, that's weird because I feel like it should do it automatically But we shall see The HLP so these are the trending tokens on HLP HLP is hyper liquid Let's go ahead and see what Luxy has to say Okay We said to make the calculate for our change function flexible so you can pass in any time interval one hour two hours three hours fifteen minutes We can modify the function to accept a parameter that specifies the number of periods to look back based on the interval between each snapshot Oh look it's done It was just taking a little bit of time So it picked big time right now to trade So it should have pasted it here actually Yep, it put it right here. So that's the symbol it picked These are all of the symbols you can see it picked that one because it had the biggest Warmer change is that the right way to do it? Hmm Not necessarily, but it is what it is and it can be changed so you saw it all ago So this would say symbol look back period Look back period will be two hours Okay, this actually looks Gucci and then this analyze Tradeable tokens Calculate change Let's try this one first. Yeah Calculate change here. Let's go ahead and make another fall Because I've done that too many times today or Trending tokens new dot PY I've done this too many times now that I know that my Savin files is helpful helpful to save files so you can see all the data coming in here. Oh looks like we got another error here So let me go ahead and fix this because No None type is non-interruptible Okay, so I think this is actually a Chill error Thankfully So let's go ahead and fix it real quick Remember I changed all that stuff be 9498 That kills me I literally broke my sniper Haha, aha not funny Funny but not funny It's funny but not funny at all You Wait a minute You Why is it why is that going? I just clicked save here Copy path copy path it shouldn't be going right away because I just had a Look Says it should just be doing it every five minutes So something funky going on I didn't save it maybe Not did save it See it's scanning right away so like it's running a different file You That's really weird This is Is new Okay, let's see if that doesn't This is new it Getting data okay, it's just because I call it in here maybe Import open high local is volume bot Go to definition so this scans the bot Keep an eye on that scanner to see if it works Okay Okay, so back to this and You can see it picked that tradable token So I'm gonna put in this new one here and this new one is gonna allow us to swap in Different hours of times to pick so the reason that's important for me at least is because maybe I want to find the thing that's turning in the last hour Okay Put that in there and then I'm also going to put this in here And then I'm gonna really test it by putting point five analyze thread Calculate change so what do we need to put in calculate change now We need to put all the other interval minutes You You Make it so Make it so we don't have to put in interval minutes because we can just Hard code to 15 minutes Our palms itching okay, that means that it's it's good. So let's go ahead. Oh my goodness scan some. That's funny um If you share your top four here you get entered to win a hundred dollar USD see giveaway And all you have to do is pick your top four memes here So you got this much time and I'll give away a hundred dollars USDC at some point in this stream here It's hard to do honestly. It's hard to pick your top four Especially in the time so this is on top memegame.com You I'm gonna wait till I have a top four these are the top volume tokens that all day so I'm so on a so super helpful for me I'll be watching it all day long. I used to watch it on drop uh not drop locks but Discord and I used to also watch it here and the words but the words don't really matter too much So look back okay perfect Snapshots perfect. This is what we want. I didn't want the 15 minutes in there because It just adds complexity and I don't want complexity. I want simple. I like simple B. I'm a simple simple dude So let's go ahead and paste out in there and then death analyze trade Trouble token too Okay Calculate forward change. What do we need to bring in there now? Calculate change calculate change Calculate change Let's say uh update this code here as well so it works with it update the below To work with the new code And this is great because while we have AI now I can pick these memes because this is where the alpha is for me at least Being able to pick the right meme to trade on that's a big That's a big thing. I like LFGO That's a good one You get 100 you get a chance to 100 USDC by the way if you share this Share your top four. It's gotta be your top four So take your time and pick your top four here for the timer runs out and Then you get a chance to win 100 USDC today So Can't find my fourth one Where is it where is it? Oh, it's Michi or whatever that is So all you gotta do is share this top your top four like this post it And then I'll get tagged I'll be able to see it So like homeboy I shared his I'll be able to see it Crypto Chad I see that I'll be able to see it and um I like it And I'll just re re repost it And then I'm gonna pick one of you guys at the end of the They end of the stream At the end of the stream be All right, let's go ahead here and see how we're gonna implement this look back hours copy over You're Just change this here Come on B How would you do that? It's all good. Don't worry about it So I still love you. I still love you You Just leave that's how about that? How about that? Okay, so here we're gonna be we'll see you tradable tokens But let's go ahead here and make this look back hours up here These look back hours. I'm gonna try point five. See if it works All right, so remember the tradable token right now on the four hour Again, this is looking for the most trending token on hyper liquid, which is a big exchange decentralized issue And um it showed all the the top gainers in the last four hours, which is nice to see chose momentum And it showed big time as being the tradable six symbol. So that's the one That this bot would trade we already have the bot already backtested all that good stuff So we here seven seven seven appreciate appreciate everybody here Appreciate everybody here. I will uh be checking the the twitch chat here soon and um Yeah Appreciate everybody being here So you already know about the giveaway and dollars and if you don't ask about it Ask about it in the chat and somebody will tell you about it Let's go back here so we can see the new memes there I actually don't love that let LF go um and kind of over the curvy So Let's go ahead and test this out to see if it works. This is our new scanner I should call this trending Well, whatever So this one's gonna be point five hours here see if it works So it gets all of the symbols perfectly okay Encarculate range c Start price So let's go to line 60 here You Print F Let's get that in there so we can have some good debug in here You Above is my air and below is my code I'm actually gonna run up a gpt credit here It's getting a new one Okay Copy that okay Face it okay, let's look see if there's any new memes here These are all the most popular memes right now until Lana So I like to look at them Let's go Let's go have see what gptz saying here So it says the area you're encounter is due to the use of a float number of shops snapshot as an index for a list Listen, this is must be integers. So it should be an integer makes sense. So it needs to be in So Calculate change here. Let's change the calculate change Death calculate change Go ahead here and change that change change change change change change Let's go ahead run it back run it back be in the back Okay, 30 minute change perfect. So now we can see number of snapshots is two That's because it's 30 minutes. So now we can see the 30 minute change In hours At hour 0.25 0.5 0.75 1 2 3 Etc Just not lower Then 15 that's pretty much it By the way, I teach exactly how to automate your trading here in the bootcamp bootcamp shows everything That myself how to automate your trading and that is accessible here It teaches you literally everything you need to know to automate your trading So what I do here on these lives is I'm actually working just sharing what I'm working on So it's a little advanced sometimes, but if you want to get caught to speed with me and even learn how to code I didn't know how to code before this either. So you're right on time I teach you how to code I teach you how to build exactly step-by-step Your own trading system with your own trading strategy And essentially back test to see if the strategy actually works and then turn it into a bot So I walk you through that whole process here in the bootcamp There's 100% money back guarantee Um, and we keep the community really tight. So Only good people are in the community and we actually get rid of anybody this work I had to get rid of somebody today. So I had to get rid of a whack one today somebody that um Was not willing to put the work in and you know, you got to put work in here So we don't let lazy people into the bootcamp So it's not I don't need your money. I don't want your money and Only reason there's a payment. There's a payment to get in here is to protect my energy and my community's energy You can see here. This is running into a problem here still We got to fix this ace up. So My sniper is pretty high priority As it runs all day and it's been doing well. So token p5 None type is not iterable Unsuccessful You wonder what's going on here Let's go check it out I really have to dub yesterday is so sad So sad I missed this up Okay, let's go back to the main and Make this so it shows us exactly where the problem is I Trying to like think about where Where have I put this code that I put in quantum leads I can check that out actually You You Go ahead here and see I'm curious to see the air I know there's an air I'm just trying to figure out and you can see this is still looking at a 30 minute change So it takes a little bit of time because there's like a hundred plus symbols here You Okay, so here in ask bid is This Data is non-interrable So ask bid in line 53 of main so let's just go ahead and try that So of the main and this is main here You Let's go look at The different folder of Of the sniper maybe because maybe I have it somewhere else You I definitely put it into the quantum elite section, so I'm just gonna scroll through there and find it You You Well, say I'm almost there You Skinner dang I put a lot of good stuff into this quantum leads up Into the quantum code section Did the team puts even fire or stuff it's crazy It's crazy that we give this all to you dude You can see what I'm scrolling through matter of fact You can see it Just looking through the quantum elite section where all the code is for back tests here So a ton of back tests and then I also put in a A lot of the projects that I work on here So you can have access to them Just the big ones though The reason I put the babies in there Okay Found it So let's look at the main dot p y Launches You Hmm, I see you happen there. Okay Let's go ahead and look at this by hand Okay, I'm gonna go ahead and put in a token mint address and just try it. So I must say print ask bid And then token mint address is above just for testing Time dot sleep Okay, I want to see the response print response response And then print response dot Addiscode Let's do those two things first Hey bud I get I get why you do that now at least So the 200 it says 200 So what's the problem blood I run this now I bought this running 200 200 200 200 Oh Oh, that's what I can do. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm gonna look at my get up That's what I'm gonna do. That's how I'm gonna do that. Of course duh. Look at her for So literally what get up is there for Yeah, but get up is literally there for this. So let's go to the main here Whoa, that's awesome Cool, this is last month It's actually exactly what I want because I Aftered up remember so I'm gonna go ahead here and see if this fixes it Yeah, cuz this is different actually It's funny. I don't know what I did yesterday, but like Let's see if this changes the entire thing You have no idea what I did yesterday, but I broke it And I can't tell you what it I did Because I just don't know I don't understand it, but it is what it is Done with first loop now done with first run now looping And When did I update this one Deo flow two months ago I know what a sniper You can see that this picked the knot It has a 30 minute change of 1.2 percent So we'll look at the end of second. I just want to make sure this is our good. She Good she I Think it should be but let's run it here from here and we'll keep an eye on it all right because I just changed it I went to a older version. I don't understand What's going on with my Get up and whatnot, but that's okay Let's see if I can pick the top four here and if you share these then you get a chance to win the hundred dollar USD See and there's not many people sharing it So you have a high chance to win here, dude and before I exit today before I leave this stream I will be giving that hundred USD see away. It's who one person who shares their top four And it tags me so I know don't worry um Get your mouth on there You I think I got a joint so uh you get entered to win a hundred dollar USD see if you share your top four here on top name game Post it like that and then I'll get tagged here so I'll know I'll just read I'll just read it and then anybody that is in there. I can also search it Top meme game so I can do that as well and Yeah at the end of this I will go ahead and see who reposted it or who posted their top four and From there we can uh A good way the hundred USD see why not look at this another guy citizen Nice dude Citizen loves games he loves games He's a citizen dog of course he loves games Of course he loves games. Okay, so snipers back snipers back sniping thank god That was scary. I was scared honestly. I was like dang did I just delete everything be I would have been no fun Trying to rebuild it Okay, let's get back to where we were and you can see it says not is the symbol Let's remove the sniper because that was crucial air we just fixed And now it's fixed so you can see not is the symbol so for this strategy at this time I would go ahead and use not because that's what it said but I want to double check to make sure it's actually legit I don't know what not is don't know where it came from Hyper liquid you H fun Oh, they've got all these new spot tokens now And you can launch them pretty easily I believe Points Let's go ahead and find not all tokens not volume is 9.2 million. So this is fine. Yeah, and it's up 30% So it's telling me to trade this one if I'm gonna trade something So that's awesome So what I'll do this I don't think I'm gonna do the 30 minutes I just wanted to test it I think I would do like let's try one hour now. We'll let's try two hours Um Yes Now let's just do one hour one hour Since this is on the one hour here the meme game Let's do one hour there Let's go ahead and see how it works with one hour I just want to make sure this is robust because we've already done the back testing We already have the strategy We pretty much have the bot the bots super easy to build We already have like so many bots built for hyper liquid Now I just want to make sure that we're trading the right token and then Oh, that's why I should do next 530 breakout bot now that we have something like this I want to check it check all symbols Yeah, yeah, that's a better way to do this. So I actually want to check all symbols here Or a breakout on our strategy The so 5 or 31 breakout bot Dot PY So what I'm gonna say is Use something like our Scanner turn you tokens new copy path Scanner Here, let's put this on the read me actually But put in our New strategy And that strategy is here remember the strategy has been optimized and it seems to do well on most tokens that I've seen so far So it's not gonna be perfect, but I just want to get it live Trending tokens new Our new strategy that has been back tested on multiple Stimbles to see if profitable Okay, by the way share your top four here. This is top meme game.com and I'm about to get ghosts So you have like five more minutes in order to do this to share your top four So Got a little bit more time to share you top four pick your top four share and you get a chance to win 100 dollar USDC so and then we want to go ahead and Implement the the strategy And run it. That's easy, dude. So that's the easy part Let's just go knock some of it out right now It's not a little bit out. I'm not gonna knock all of it out Yesterday with my day off today is now actually my day off So I'm about to get close. I'm not gonna be here for eight hours like I was last two days I get a little obsessive sometimes, but that is that's me and that's why I'm good at whatever anything I do Whatever I do. I'm good at because I I obsess over it and So yesterday we built the last two days we built this top meme game over on the left side And this is amazing for me to be able to see what's trending every single hour So this essentially puts the top volume tokens on Solana for the last hour in front of my face all day long And then I can just keep changing my top four like what are my top four right now? Well obviously shortcut See how it's doing It's the cutest it's down bad It's down bad, but it's the cutest Uh, let's see which him off in his ladies doing Okay straight up See I wouldn't have found that without this game see what's going on with geo 747 Down bad Well, it's a cool way to keep track of this uh my opinion so take this one off here If you share your top four uh, then you get entered and win a hundred dollar USDC. Let's go ahead here and Let's see what chat you be teak and do because boy This was yesterday was wild Yeah, actually the last two days I feel like I did a uh, um Lowkey no, I did a hackathon I did a hackathon Your boy did a mo freaking hackathon here live on YouTube So 7 and 16 7 is to take profit 16 stop loss 7 16 I've got this strategy here And we've backtested already it does pretty good Above is a backtested trading strategy That I would like to build into my scanner to see which one of the tokens meets the requirements of the strategy So essentially it will be scanning for the breakout on the Let's see You Hourly Of the daily resistance And then it will make a df of all the tokens that just did that Here is the scanner Code that currently Looks at the top volume of the top percent change We won't use that as a metric but we can probably use some of the The um Code below to build the above So let's see how she can do I mean I'm not like I'm pretty like To be honest today I'm a little brain dead I'm gonna take a little break here And uh have today just to be thinking about New avenues we could take this this one super clear we have a winning backtests It just takes a little bit effort for me to put it all in um But yeah, I just need it. I just need a day a day to think on things We've been building at a hundred miles per hour here So um if you do want to get into this hundred dollar giveaway all you got to do is Select your top four on top meme game here and Then share it on twitter and I'm gonna keep sharing mine So I'll keep looking through this all day long Till I find a top four I actually like this cat so I'm gonna share it boom So if you share it it's gonna tag me You get a chance to win a hundred dollar USDC Okay, and that's gonna be done here any minute so If you're interested in that give away like do it like now because I'm about to get a ghost I'm about to get ghost I'm gonna jump in the chat here soon as well and say what's up there ready Okay, let's go ahead and give it that code So here Let's go ahead here and paste it in and see what she's got to say here And I'm gonna go ahead and check into twitchy twitch see how y'all are doing See if there's any good questions or comments or concerns or love I checked the twitch before I checked the youtube because youtube is um wild Bro why you use python is it python slow z2 says You know No It's slow but like slow to what you know Slow to what is the question It's slower than like others But it does great for me I'm not trading uh high frequency if you're trying to trade high frequency uh Then yeah Might be a little slow for you but You Um, let's see here yo love to you Chad what up bro Since chat asks how long have I been working on this type of project for Related crypto. I've been focused on this industry. I've been focusing on crypto for about a decade but I'll go trade in and coding for three and a half years He says I'm gonna win for sure chaz You don't have to spam it you don't have to spam it so chaz asking about the giveaway I'm doing if you share your top four here on top meme game you share it on twitter It's gonna tag me and who I'm gonna do that in a few minutes here. So uh just Go to top meme game.com pick your top four memes super easy just select them or deselect them by that doing that and then You know share it and In a few minutes. I'm gonna do this hundred dollar giveaway. So Let's go ahead and uh get those in while you can let's go ahead here and answering more questions Uh Z2 asks the same question again There's like three people in here dog, so no need to do that Uh Chad answered your question, which is good. Python is really easy understandable as language is really easy for those projects It's definitely slower than c++ and chart z2 for sure If you really need speed jump on over there. That's fine I'm gonna keep using Python Chad says of course he said that he learned it from bookian c++ and Russ have memory allocation Stuff really not easy understandable for beginners when python is really good not high frequency parts. Yep exactly Um how many languages do I know I know I know all of them. No, I don't actually know all of them, but uh I know python if python is the one I'm like confident in But yesterday we were using html. We're using javascript yesterday. We were using CSS. Uh, I learned rust. I've learned solidity. I've learned but all that like that's just intimidating honestly I've learned a little bit of c++. I've learned javascript But it doesn't matter. It doesn't really doesn't matter once you learn python all of the others are like You know Not that hard to come up with or to understand it's um It's really about learning how to code and once you learn how to code It's just like if you need to switch languages like if I needed to start coding all in javascript tomorrow. I could I wouldn't be as good at it at it, but like You see what I'm saying like it's it's just the the way to think as a coder and like what loops are and functions and all these Things and then like once you get to c++ and rust you have to like think about memory and stuff like that Um, I prefer python. I and I learned rust. I spent a lot of time with rust slidity I've done a lot over there as well, but I keep coming back to python Obviously slidities for smart contracts and rust is a little more versatile than slidity, but All right, uh, yeah, if you guys have any questions ask me out here on on twitch. I got a few more minutes to kick it and answer any questions Thanks, so chat is a dev at a web app company and he only does c sharp and angular He misses python so much. I miss it too. I would miss it too I did it like yesterday and the day before we built this top meme game and I was using A little bit of a high-thon, but not much mostly html and javascript and css and I was just like oh, I can't wait to get back to python I can't wait to get back. Let's see if this code works by the way I'm not gonna go too deep onto this right now, but By brainhurt I did a hackathon. I did 16 hours in the last two days of code Maybe even 17 hours of coding in the last two days, so That was crazy dude I was really crazy stretch, but we built the top meme game and now we got the hundred dollar giveaway. So here I build it and I give it right back You could have it's all free here. It's all free to use and It's not really a game. I mean kind of a game, but it's more of like a hey a great way to track this stuff in my opinion So I like this dog though get this out of here Share so if you share yours you get a chance to win the hundred dollars. I'ma keep sharing mine Because mine keep changing Mine keep changing so I'ma keep sharing Let's see here Yeah, is he too exactly he says got it. It's like problem solving matter language. It doesn't matter Yeah, exactly the language doesn't matter. It's problem solving. It's just And then you got to learn like the terminology like functions and variables and all that BS That's just like there to trick you and scare you off Chats says python is just so smooth writing the code. Don't not explain it. Me neither dude Me neither I will keep on checking in here on the chat We got a few more minutes on the giveaway. So if you want to get those in you can see writing I'll go see if this works. Okay path to resistance. csv error no file. Okay. That's fine. I can figure that out Mine 74 okay 74 here. Okay data data data uh Symbols daily resistance. Let's see if there's another one here that probably is data breakout tokens. Okay Hmm We don't have path to resistance We don't have It would be on you to build this since I have given you my strategy Already Where can we see your codes you can see them in the bootcamp Bootcamp is where I teach all this stuff and I Can actually take the time to go through different algorithms that I've built and show you how you can Build your strategy into a trading bot none of this is plug and play though So don't jump in here. Don't come in here if you think it's gonna be Um just plug and play you get rich. It's not like that at all Uh, I'm teaching you exactly how to fish So you can fish for the rest of your life aka how to automate your trading so you can automate your trading for the rest of your life Uh, we've had a couple of people that sneak through I try to keep my marketing and everything very transparent that hey This takes a lot of work. It's not easy But I've been doing it for three and a half years and I am way ahead of most people So I can get you up to speed with me. It's not a get rich quick though So like I said we we've had a few people that jump in and they think it's a get rich quick We're like they're just buying a bot But I think it's a scam if you ever see somebody saying hey buy this bot And you're gonna make money because that's not how it works. You have to build your own edge But all of these people are really Like dedicated to the process so they all have written good things about this Boo camp because they actually take it and use the resources and build on top of them build their own strategies and their own edges So you can read about it here But yeah, it's not a plug and play bot thing if you ever come across a plug and play bot thing I personally think it's a scam because that's if it's too good to be true. It probably is and This everything I teach here is not too good to be true because you actually have to put in hard work in order to develop your edge And your own strategy That being said 69 bucks to get three and a half years of Training to get up to speed with me. I think it's well worth it and there's a hundred percent money back guarantee Um, I tend to kick out the get rich quick kids So there's some get rich quick kids in here that think that they can just like click this web oh I clicked this web budding I put 69 dollars in it and I didn't get a million dollars in the next day So we get kids like do that and I know you're in college So like when I was in college I was looking for something to make money fast fast fast That's why I said you know This isn't gonna be a fast fast fast thing You're gonna learn a hard skill that can help for the rest of your life to automate trading if you are a trader right now Let's go checking on youtube see what these See see what these punks have to say if there's any bad vibes. I'm not coming back I'm not coming back if there's any bad vibes open this youtube 777 say it's off right Huh, yo z2 from twitch says 69 bucks You decided that never buy intentioned right? I don't know that was a good price. I thought it was fun I tried to keep things fun. I don't really need the money. So it's just like why would I Make it not fun, you know Yo, yo, what's up? Hey, sok. Hey good to see you. I haven't seen you in a minute actually chat. What up? I think you're over here now Uh, hey cool channel. I've been watching your vids You're an x software engineer and bidding crypto for five years or so and love all the new AI stuff keep up the good works kudos Thank you, bro. Thank you, dude. Thank you guys really good vibes over here on youtube 777 chat I see your tweet. So yeah, we're we're giving away the $100 USDC here in just a few minutes All you got to do is go to top meme game pick your top four memes before the time runs out and then share them on Twitter and then you're entered to win the $100 and I'm about to do that giveaway here soon. So you got a couple more seconds uh No, conversely, I'm also a developer and what help if it's an open source project now It is open source dog This is an open source project All here on youtube. Just go ahead and open up the youtube channel. It's open source just in a different way um, I don't find any value and get hub I mean when I find code on get hub it's like okay. What do I do with this code? Uh, maybe that's because I'm a noob and I don't know how to read other people's code very well So for me the best way to learn is through video. So the way i open source is putting it on video It's all on video every single step of my journey every single thing I figured out Everything is on youtube for 100% free Some videos are embarrassing. They're five hours long and I'll get one thing done Some videos I am fast Seven minutes Some videos are like I said extremely vulnerable and embarrassing like this one three hours and 43 minutes I built a bot that trades 78 tokens at once But it's all here. It's all open source. It's all all that um Yeah So i'm glad you're here Andrew C++ is also prone to hacking and a guaranteed exploit guaranteed guaranteed Nice Nice pro nice nice nice And It also says that markets aren't decided by trends trend only helped to predict market movement There is no evidence that shows we are about to hit a bull market. I agree I agree. I agree. There is no evidence that we're hitting a bull market, but I Don't know let's see so markets aren't decided by trends trends only help predict the market Yeah, I just know that markets do Have different regimes. That's all I was saying earlier. So That's cool you're here dude. I'm glad you're here much love to you If you guys want to enter the giveaway, I'm about to go ahead and just count up the tallies because I'm gonna get ghost here because uh, yeah, I'm just uh need to take a little time Chats has checked my latest message. Do you mind sharing the repository of top memecoin.com? I can take a look at it and probably add some fun features at search bar, etc um Yeah, chew me a DM or something. I'm not sure. I don't really want to focus on it too much I really that's really kind of you though to say you want to add some features and search bar stuff What I found is that You know, I kind of just proved this again yesterday is any any project is gonna take me like 50 hours of time so um You know what I'm saying like I'm a I don't know. I'll think about shoot me shoot me at this I think about it. I don't know if I want to move this forward here because this took like 17 hours or something in the last two days Tiger world says how do I oh do my picks? How do I how do my picks? How I do my picks? How I do my picks Uh, you just go like this bro You know when you refresh you just pick your your four top tokens, so uh, I like so long. That's funny I Like this dog still so I'm just picking you up 30 seconds to pick it I like this now that's a trump thing Hmm Just pick them be You just pick them in this share it though, so just share your top four like that So that's a whole tutorial of the whole thing and if you share this post it You got about five minutes here before the giveaway is over so Your way is gonna be 100 USDC discord user ID uh moon dev uh It's moon dev I have a link in the description here that will take you to Here the The website and at the bottom of the website you'll be able to join the discord and i'm in the discord so it's at moon dev On the discord if you got some anymore questions, we're gonna wrap up here with the giveaway. I see that you posted tiger you posted your picks here, but The picks gotta be posted on through the tweet function here on the top meme game Uh, just like this click that share it like that post it It will tag me and then i will know that you entered and there's only a few people entered So somebody's making a hundred bucks here and the next few minutes, which is nice This link is invalid Which link be Should be a link on twitch here But The discord one really Maybe you got blocked, bro Ha, I don't know have you been in there already Is it still gonna like it's working for me, dude Is it working for everybody else Hmm, that's weird Um I don't know what to tell you though That's wild It's wild it's not working to just work for me, but maybe because i'm the admin I'll go ahead and Create new invite and i'll update it right now It never expires There's no limit to To it Sorry come again Does it work for you, jab So So the giveaway is gonna end here in a few minutes So if you want to get in on that um you just share that you're top four there Let's go ahead and make sure that link is working on the discord I'm just gonna check it out here and Also, I want to see what chat gbt has done See if she's fixed this code she's our little worker while we're here Kind of working break out trending okay I'm not gonna go too deep into this today kind of brain dead Okay, there we go So So the giveaway is gonna be in the next like five to ten minutes I'd say So if you want to get in go pick your top four on top meme game and then share your top four That's it super simple it tags me so i can know you entered the giveaway That's it, but it has to be during this live If you're watching this later, sorry be You can still use the app but That's about it That's about it, duh That's about it, duh I'm changing the link on the discord thing oh my goodness, it's not it Hoppy All right, it's updated. I mean my other refresh it The Link Uh, the link is at the bottom of the page for the free discord here So go refresh it maybe try incognito the link has been updated so Should be a new link now just in case it wasn't working but Z2 here from twitch says it's not working on his end. I'm wondering if it works works anywhere else Um, it's up in here if you click this link here you'll be able to see it You can see here that i think it's going ahead and calculating the resistance I need i need some I need more print resistance levels for the symbol Just need more feedback here So here boom, okay, that's the resistance for btc. This is the resistance for ETH Nice, this is perfect. This is perfect. I've shown you everything today I showed you the back test as well. So here's the back test again just in case you didn't see it I've shown you everything. I continuously show you everything, dude So please do have that like button and um Do what you need to do do Do what you need to do to keep coming back be So This is printing out the resistance for all of them now, which is nice to see There's all the code for the back test. We're gonna implement this This is all the code for the scanner here and You take your screenshots or whatever you want to do do Whatever you want to do dude. It's your world. I'm just here code in a way showing you absolutely everything on the path to a Fubi a few bb Why do you think I use b so often b? Why do you think I use b so often b because my mind is focused b Why do you think I say b every other word? I don't know Maybe I'm chasing the b. I don't know Here we got about five minutes before we do this giveaway and the giveaway is on top memecoin.com And all you got to do is share your top four So go pick your top four before the timer ends top meme game.com and pick your top four Before the time ends and now I'm gonna go ahead I'm gonna give you a timer of like five minutes. I'm gonna put a five minute time wrong A five minute time wrong and then we're gonna go ahead and Do that giveaway. So if you have any final questions throw them in the chat Throw them in the chat. I'm about to get ghost after this giveaway I'm gonna get your usdc Address here Whoever wins All right, so we're doing this giveaway here in a few minutes now. So I'm just Gonna wait for any last entries to come in before I get ghost here But um Yeah, it looks like it's working. Yeah, it worked after I changed it. Okay, perfect So Today we are going to build a breakout trading bot here on hyper liquid for crypto This is how you automate your trading so in the past parts of this Training or videos. I have shown you exactly how to research trading strategies and then backtest those strategies So my process to automate trading is not jumping directly to a bot. So Just remember that it's it's always comes down to first research and strategies Coming up with the strategy and where can you research strategies? Well, Google scholar has a wealth of knowledge here written by PhDs written by masters degree students People that spend their whole life in school It is what it is and um their research is can sometimes be really good because they're spending a lot of time on it So YouTube's another place a little easier lower barrier to entry for youtube videos. So take that for what it is But you're spending most your time on the research in the backtesting part and then you're implementing into a bot So uh don't be like me and jump into algo trading and go right for the bot because that's not ever gonna be a good play The best place to always research research research and then backtests strategies And then if they worked in the past then they may work in the future. So you've seen already the the backtests Let's go ahead and see if we can pull them up again Here we have a couple hybrid liquid bots here. Is this where we put the backtests as well? Yeah Here's the back one of the backtests here breakout bot We have a ton of these backtests and we've as you can see on 528 one two three four five We did like five different backtests and they all proved to be profitable. So that's good and Let's see here. Here's just one just so we can run it really quickly They're all kind of different and they all have different results We've tested on so many different symbols now you can see this one's on i and j There's probably the worst performer we've found but the buy and hold is 71 percent the return is 97 percent It gets 98 trades in so this is actually the strategy that I'm going to be implementing because All this not a huge number of trades Over 208 days. That's like a trade every other day. That's fine with me So this is the strategy. I want to build out So I'm going to go ahead and put this up here and say okay, let's go ahead and put it up here. Okay Now Yeah, this is the process. This is the process here and you've been seeing me do all this you've seen all the backtests here prior and now I'm going to go ahead and implement this into a bot So what I was what I stopped on here was I was looking at this breakout bot here and What we're trying to do here is come up with the see which ones are hitting our resistance levels And then seeing if we calculate get the breakout. So let's say update this code Update this code so it follows this exact strategy Update the above code so it scans or this exact strategy below And this is the strategy that we're replicating here so BT single, okay, so let's go ahead and copy it all in and say hey we want to replicate that for that strategy So to update the initial code so that it scans for a breakout strategy to find in the later part We need to make several modifications. Here's the updated code Okay, so Let's see what she does here Okay, here we go fetching candles the function fetch candles now returns snapshot data Candles directly daily resistance calculation prints resistance levels for symbols for verification breakout calculation Adjust to the stop loss and take profit per cent of this to match the strategy, okay What are they take profits here You 3 and 8 10 Let's go ahead here and copy this code over and let's go to breakout bot here 531 breakout bot. That's today Look at that. I go in the future. It's pretty crazy So we're gonna add a bunch of print statements here for resistance level print perfect, okay, and here check breakout Print That's what I want to see here breakout Okay, so first we're building the scanning functionality out And by the way, this is the top top volume tokens here on the left side It's part of what my sniper pulls so this is my so on a sniper here and It's sniping tokens early and It also I look at this by hand and I pick my top for every hour so So So I this dog just keeps catching my eye And if it catches my eye over and over again, that is uh Something I want to note so this mouse or this thing keeps catching my eye The dog with no hat, but I just don't like the re skin this Thanks You Coming with cheeks I'm gonna share my top four real quick Because I haven't shared my top four today Undefined What happened to Well Well, we got to fix this real quick. Mm-hmm. So let's go ahead and fix that while Let's get this scanning first So running out go okay perfect indices candles But a prince here that you need so let's see. Let's just put it for him Line 43 here Line 43 list print Snapshot data okay, and then we'll be able to give it a good response here Okay, you can see this all the response here And then I can say I got this air Got this air Okay, so it knows the air now let's jump into our GitHub here of that other thing What is that other thing well that other thing is the um Um Memegame I guess yeah meme game Hmm It's open in visual studio here And we can see in the Memegame that This here That it looks like the thing broke So how do I get that back? I honestly don't know um Okay What was the thing to push to GitHub or not GitHub? How do I Do I push a new version to Heroku Assuming my apps Name is Solana memes I got a log in her Roku first You Press any key Verification code oh, I got a verification code on my phone Got it the one-time password thing. So let me go ahead and verify that I know this is a little pivot of what we're doing, but it is what it is you get to see this Every single day Zero one there we go I Logging in perfect. I'm in there. So now I need to go ahead and say Get add something it's like get add dot okay It's get add dot then what I just forgot Okay, that's what it is You We're that this was stopped working Oh It's because I haven't launched deep thing yet. So I just reset my computer You Get add Get commit and then we run This whatever this was Okay, let's say get branch Okay, there we go See if this fix it Let's go see what chat gbt says about that code here Remember we're back to the outgilt rate and no so we're going back and forth all day because we this What we do. Sorry. It is what it is not sorry actually. I'm just happy I'm happy to be here with you and sharing all that's with you. So I'm sorry for the sporadicness going back and forth that is what it is. We'll be here forever Okay, so you can see resistance level for E resistance level for Adam So we're seeing resistance levels for all of these Oh I didn't put the print print One more than that uh Thank you And then so for symbol and symbols catch if our release snapshot. Okay breakout info breakout info. Okay You Guess we don't need all that Let's go ahead and check out the breakout here See if this fix it I wonder what was going on there, but this is my top name for today Before you go up in there and share yours as well Or that's my top for it. No, that's actually not my top for sorry I'm gonna read delete that So I'm glad we got that fixed. That was awesome It's awesome. Let's go ahead and close that now And since that's fixed we can just focus on this. So now this is calculating the resistance level on the daily Because the strategy remember is a Daily strategy or it's a it's looking at daily resistance and then waiting for an hour break up That's it super simple strategy. So you can see daily resistant Let me actually get my top foreign here while we got this time This dog for sure I like her man Like this frog even though I don't Don't want to offend anybody. Oh boy. Oh boy boy. Oh boy What's my fourth? I don't see any heat today. Oh Oh Sharka of course so cute. All right, these are my top four Feel free to share yours go to my Twitter here And um smooth dev on my tea That's it You can go there and if you want to see the top memes every hour of every day Then you can see them. It's freebie It's a free public good for you I don't know if it's helpful, but for me it's helpful So I built it for myself and that's why I do around here. They just build stuff for me. Sorry I'll be just gonna open these up in the new tabs see what they're looking like while this is Splurging through the resistance here. Let's go back to here. Let's close it out and we'll wait for this to go through and And Once that is done We will go ahead and This is the PNL curve by the way, so I said I'd show you results. I already showed you the results of the back test This is just one of the random backtests of the breakout strategy We tested across multiple different assets different time frames Um Just to get a feeling for it, you know, not everything that works in the past works in the future. So I like to test them multiple time frames and whatnot Just get this out of here So Walter is This dog thing and okay Doesn't look too great. I mean, let's go ahead and look at the hourly. It's a little easier Yeah, doesn't look the best, but I don't know Now here to predict gain predict ups or downs. I'm just here to put a little bit bias into my bots by selecting the tradable tokens. So You know, there's always going to be bias in people's bots In this one here, there might not be too much bias, but yeah, there is at the end of the day because I built the the Strategy, right So that's there's bias in the strategy. There's always going to be some bias in your bots All right, so this is still going through this is taking too long though Um How is it doing this You I honestly think it'd be better for me to just code this because Let's yeah, let's do that. Let's just let's just raw dog this because At the end of the day, you know AI can do it, but I need to understand every piece of this if We're going to have this be a thing Okay, so what I'm going to do here So we get the symbols, okay We've already been able to fetch the daily data you can see this is 30 days of data. Okay But how much data did we fetch in this one for the breakout Because I'm trying to match these up, you know, this is the Quote unquote profitable backtests. I mean, it's a profitable backtests, but again, be be wary, you know It's not always going to work out like it did in the back pass Be very very wary always always on So So what I want to do here is try to duplicate this so It's not too hard the current close has to be over daily resistance. So let's get the current close This is that's to be the hourly close So the hourly close which is the current close self dot data dot close Data dot close here data is hourly data here The rename The hourly data dot set set indices for daily and hourly data. Okay hourly data is this What I'm wondering here is how in this part of the when it comes to this I want to see that make sure that this is correct Because BT dot data. Let's look at data data Path Okay Based on the below code please explain the trading strategy and how it works exactly And And this line here Also this line here Where what data frame what data frame is it getting it from And how okay, so the reason I'm questioning this is because here you can see it says Closed is self dot data dot close negative one, but I'm wondering where is that data from Because I see daily data here daily data hourly data and the strategy in my mind was supposed to Look at daily data and then Essentially go ahead and look at the uh hourly data determined the breakout so I want to make sure that that is all correct here So you can see explanation of trading strategy that provided code It implements a breakout strategy using the backstripsing up you are Capture price movements when the price breaks above a defined resistance level. Here's a detailed explanation So data loaded the data is being loaded from a CSV file located at this. This is the daily data And the hourly data. Okay, this data contains hourly price. Okay data processing both Data sets are indexed by their time stamp columns to facilitate time-based operations The hourly data columns are renamed to match the expected format for back testing.py Breakout strategy class Inherits the strategy. Okay initialization. Okay Is used to initialize the strategy and loads the daily levels and the self dot daily dot resistance The next method is called it fetches. Okay breakout condition if the current closed price is above the most recent daily resistance level It identifies a breakout and entry is set to the current closed price The strategy places by order if the stop loss is below the entry price Self dot data refers to the data frame of the hourly data provided by the back testing library When the strategy is running self dot data contains the price above high and low Petching the current closed price self dot data close gets the closed price of the most recent bar and Python negative one. Okay, I get that So on each hourly bar This breakout the strategy fetches the most recent hourly closed price it compares this price to the most recent Daily resistance level if the closed price is above the resistance level. I guess please please walk me through the code Part that makes sure to look for the resistance level on the daily while the breakout is on the hourly I can't tell I can't tell how It is splitting them Certainly let's walk through the specific codes looking at the resistance level so here you can see loading index daily and hourly are loaded And indexed by the timestamp column This indexing ensures that we can perform time-based operations efficiently And then knit method the daily resistance levels are loaded in self dot daily resistance from the daily data data frame Daily data Resistance is expected to be a column in the daily data that contains the resistance levels Next method get the most recent daily Resistance levels or the current time current time is self dot data Okay, so daily resistance is self dot Daily resistance Dot index Check for breakout so entry place use the current closed price Let's break down this method here So fetching the current time and closed price current time is self dot data negative one current close is self dot data Negative one current time gets the timestamp from the most recent hourly bar current closed gets the closed price of The most recent hourly bar finding the most recent daily resistance. So daily resistance is self dot Daily resistance Self dot daily resistance under current time this line looks up the daily resistance level that is most recent and does not exceed The current hourly timestamp So self dot daily Resistance dot index under current time filters the daily resistance series to include only those entries up to the current time I look one negative one selects the last most recent entry from this filtered series Breakout candles. So if current closes over daily resistance Entry price is current close The strategy checks if the hourly close price is greater than the most recent daily resistance level if the condition is checked is met It sets the entry price to the current close price Calculates the stop loss and take profit It It then checks the stop loss. So I mean this is a little sketch out say but This is the differences between backtests and and live testing you so This does it seems to do what we wanted to do so I'm fairly confident with the backtest. That's all I was trying to do is get more confident with the backtest But that's half the game. Okay, so I feel a little more confident a little bit more confident um, let's go ahead here and I Figure out the rest of this part. So this is fetching the Data. Oh, that's the one more thing I wanted to do is what is this data on? um Here I'm going to go to my data source here. So data from hl and I want to see the open high low close volume data here and What's it making the range on You Process data Get open high low close volume. What's it making the 20 s email? I think it's my answer. I just said it What's the it was that making the s email? Process data to data frame So It's a 20 s ma. Okay So it's using the 20 s ma here process Process it's this one here. So Support rolling minimum periods equals one time period is this okay, so it's the 20 s ma So I know that now so I can put that into my hard coded thing here Because the the strategy that we're rebuilding is this daily Resistance On 20 day If current hourly Is over daily resistance by With 3% TP and 18% stop that's it. That's super simple right we backtested it seems to do okay I mean it does better than buying hold and um, I just want to show you this full process here I I think I'm gonna do more of these videos like this just like The entire process because I don't want you to go out there and start building bots right away. I want you to make sure to Take this approach a little slower research more backtests more and you've seen how much I've backed I said before I even got into the bot so get symbols here Okay, so this fetches these symbols perfect this goes ahead and gets the snapshot data here for those Candles, but we don't need that anymore because I can just use my My um Let's make this bigger I can use this um Fetch snapshot data I can use my nice funks if they're here it's open to the side here fetch The snapshot Get open high low-close volume to process data the data frame You Well, let's just change this as it's already got it so Changed out the 20 days start time and time Calculate daily resistant to you This is high prices so high in the daily data. Okay, resistance perfect So that calculates the daily resistance. Okay now. Well perfectly. I don't need to change anything Then check breakouts. So we need the hourly snapshot now. So We also need to get the hourly data fetch data here Days Fetch daily data Also stated the F let's see how we did it over here in our data gitter So this here So let's go ahead and um Can cat interesting. What did I can get here a penddy? Oh, it's it's looping it. Okay So I'll close that for now data is going to break out bot here and Let's go ahead here and um You busy with it by simply saying So So resistance levels here Equals calculate daily resistance Okay, so it should get all the resistance levels right as resistance levels for symbol and symbol So it's passing on all symbols perfect and then it's getting all the breakout data so print The symbols Here, let's make this much shorter Let's do uh, let's mark this out for now because this is gonna take forever if we do it the other way symbols equals um A list right I think it's so Think of with I think of BTC okay Symbols Okay, and then let's say print Resistance levels Okay, and then Hourly get the hourly snapshot and I'm actually gonna use something different here. I'm gonna use the nice funks File here And remember we just copied something I can't remember what it was, but it was this So we're gonna go say snapshot data here and I'm gonna use my nice funks here And I'm gonna say this is gonna be the one hour and iteration limit interesting The effus iteration limit Look back days It doesn't need to be many honestly. Let's just do like two End dot isn't in there so we got an import end dot. What is end dot? Well, that's funky funks be Import nice funks as and that's our nice funks file that we got built here um for this and Now we can calculate here Where are we where are though where are though? Where did we go? Okay, here it is. So here now this should work So print snapshot if snapshot data if snapshots if hourly snapshots what was hourly snapshots? Okay Honestly is this beat let's change that to that and then let's go like this and then let's print this a print hourly snapshots wait wait wait wait fetch candle snapchat. Oh for symbol and symbol perfect. Okay, I think this is Gucci now be I don't know though, let's run it I'll go resistance levels for soul with BTC perfect. Okay sick. So where do we get stuck at so this prints out the the Resistance for each of them in the last 20 days The last 20 days resistance I believe Because we hard coded that in right Yeah Yeah right here Days though we don't pass we pass in fetch daily data See here Where do we get that? Damn beat this is tough Calculate resistance levels here Okay here fetch daily data of the symbol okay, we didn't pass anything in that perfect Okay, so it's looking at the 20 Resistance here Support perfect that's what we want It's exactly what we want but dang why did I just close that out like a tard I don't know be I don't know I did though, so it got closed out my back I hope everybody's doing well today 777 and I'll check it out check out the chat here And uh here in a few be here in a few here in a few. Oh man. We've already been here for a minute though So yeah, sorry, so ambiguous line 137 this is an hourly snapshots 123 okay, that's on breakout. Okay 123 here. Let's check out 123 and print out hourly snapshots. Okay So if hourly snapshots If not hourly snapshots dot empty How about that be see if that works Okay, nice. I think we got past it. Let's see here So now we're on line 24 perfect 124 key error of negative one. So here and current close 124 we actually jump up to 78 here and Wait, wait, wait, do we jump up to 78? Yeah, we do let's jump up to 78 here. Okay 78 here is Current close check breakout Okay Check breakout. Why do we need to check breakout Okay, check breakout. That's why duh duh Okay, let's go ahead here and Line 22 line it says feet out float currently Okay, let's print out the snapshot data again. I think we do Okay, it's negative one Of column C Is that the column though close. It's actually close now. Okay So we changed it we changed it on her. That's why she's having a problem So let's change that C to its close with the lower case dude So let's say see Then change this to close Okay Close here and then we should be moving forward print current close print Come on B you got this You awake or not you know playing with us today. Okay You sleepy or something Come on AI where are you I say you're so so fly all the time but then where are you my god 7777 to you do You can see here that I still didn't do it correctly. Okay Hmm, I feel like it's this way but you know We'll see I thought I like that's how I would do it but What do I know? Ha ha? Okay, so it still is not working Um, let's print out the hourly snapshots. I think that should Give us the information we need but I thought we already know what that is and I think it's a data frame, but maybe not It is the data frame. Okay, so it's the close here I get this error. Let's just have GPT do it because It's just time, you know Here's my code please fix Here is my code Remember never Delete my prints Please Remember that I want to see the remember memory thing come up. Oh, I didn't see it come up So that means you're gonna delete my prints again be I don't want you to delete my prints ever dark I knew I was supposed to be using it. I look but you know I'm a new so I don't want to use the I look by myself Check break out should be I look that's it I'll come say what's up here on twitch here in a second So if you have any questions or comments or love or anything like that just go ahead hit me on the twitchy twitch There's a link in the description be Let's check the breakout and let's just Change this one because that's really what we need to change. Okay, you're able to see all this code right? Let me make it a little bit smaller here So it's a little bit easier to work with and um, yeah, you can you can have it. It's all here to Check breakout. Okay, let's go ahead here and see let's see if this fixed it here I think it should have I'm gonna make this guy a little smaller. I'm gonna make this a little bigger Okay current close current close perfect. Okay sick. So what we're gonna do now is We're gonna I'm trying to make a data frame essentially of just the the ones that have hit the breakout So we can see here that we now pass in all of our data that we need the hourly snapshots I don't need to print that anymore get out of here. I don't want you anymore I don't want you anymore either Sorry, the let's go ahead here boom get the daily resistance level. Okay Daily resistance of get symbol. What is the daily resistance level print Come on B where you at This is the daily resistance Come on dog where you at I don't know Top in B wake up Wait up be come on where you at you over here tripping Ready yeah not too ready Come on dog we need you today We need you deactivate disable completions Disabled completions for Python. Okay, it's disabled. Let's go ahead and restart it because we're not just gonna raw dog life like that. So Sorry Sorry, I'm not gonna just do that. Okay, let's enable her again She's disabled will enable enable for Python. Okay, you there you now. I think you're there now. Okay, perfect. It's good to have you back Shorty glad you're here Suppose I can make this smaller here so I can see it Well Now I've got all the data I need to see today Okay, let's go ahead here and Okay Print daily resistance level. Okay, that's what we wanted to do Print up Okay Current close I want print current close print She Gee Oh, she's tripping all day to day huh You This is daily resistance remember we're doing a daily resistance and we're doing hourly Current close is based off the hour So I want to see both of those tanks Okay, and You can see the stop loss is 18% take profits 3% nice nice dude nice So this should get it for all okay, look at this. This is great Current closes this Daily resistance that in 20 days current closes this Daily resistance is that current closes this daily resistance is that So none of those hit and that's fine. Let's go ahead and try it the real way Yo Now that's sure actually Okay, what's the real way though? Well, let's keep it going. Let's keep it going um How do we make how do we stress assess this I want to make sure this works if daily closes under this yeah So let's go ahead and make sure To do change Back to this okay Okay, and then let's go ahead here and say Yeah, this will be good This is a good way to test you know just three symbols there breakout detected breakout detected perfect So this would be our entry price here. So it'd be our stop loss and this would be our take profit. That is so Gucci Wow Okay, that is nicely set up as very very nicely set up. Let me go ahead since we got the hard part done I mean what else do we need to do really it's not it's not hard from here now we just we run it with the real symbols here And wait wait, let's I'm getting a little ahead of myself. I'm getting a little ahead of myself Um, those aren't the real symbols by the way, so I'm gonna delete that Did you delete that line here? I'm getting a little ahead of myself This is gonna go on to that and then that's gonna tell us the stop loss and take profit and it's gonna make a CSV Of essentially the tokens that we want to trade And by we I mean me be Return none okay, so when are we calling this we're calling this cliff check breakout here Check breakout here. Okay breakout if breakout breakout data penned okay breakout df equals this okay This is breakout df. Oh nice dude So it's making a breakout df here and it should should be up in here. Yeah, dude look at that Okay, sick now. I'm gonna say what's up to everybody in the chat and the twitch chat because now I'm gonna run this and it's gonna take a little bit of time so There's a hundred and some tokens here, so I'm gonna say what's up to everybody in the chat here now and also pick some of my favorite memes again Just because this is literally my morning time and I haven't done this much today and these are all the poppin memes right now on Solanas. So Let me go ahead and Check out twitchy twitch What's going on 7777 to everybody good morning good morning Sharing love with you all day every day 7777 So you can see this is working great You Yo good morning, Ganesh how are you? Yo Joshua welcome to the crew bro. It's glad that you are I'm glad you're here dude It's a it's a good place to be if you're into crypto and all that good stuff. I'll go trade in So you can see this is now running for all of the tokens here and You Yes, it's looking good. So I'm gonna let it keep going. I Can't wait to see this I cannot wait You I see if there's any breakouts right now Because remember this pretty much does our strategy for us So we're gonna have a data frame here and then I'm gonna just put in the orders with stops and And stops and take profits That's it Okay, there's all of the tokens now it's calculating all of the breakout prices You 930 so the market just open and there's some liquidations coming through here You can see eith somebody just got licked for 108k so they should probably stop trading by hand be Holy smokes what a morning have we seen here liquidations to the upside and then the downside You can see Tesla opened up right now down a bit coinbase up a bit But it got wrecked at the open the video also Up and then down So some interesting price action, but I'm not here to trade by hand I just look at these markets sometimes to see how hand traders are gambling and Yeah, it's quite quite crazy. I should have changed this But it's okay. I want to see how it works if it works all the way through You Okay, so it's breakout detected for all of them simply because I said to have I made it backwards just for testing Let's see if there's any new tokens here that I'm interested in Oh here we go so you can see all 128 I want to run this back actually and do it with um With it actually being correct So I'm gonna go ahead and run it again and then we'll see how it does You You You You All right, so now we have some licks to the upside this is this is crazy price action for a morning time and I mean, it's pretty typical actually. It's not that crazy to be honest. I'm gonna pick my top four here. There's any top four I keep looking at this guy This dog though. It's really ugly. It's really ugly You You can't even see this stuff Sorry about that Okay, here we go and now it's going through all the breakout to see if it's breaking breaking out of the You I'm having trouble picking my top four So You I gotta go with this Pepe in this shortcut of course I'm a share my top four And then I'm gonna go ahead and retweet anybody that shares theirs so Let's see if anybody has shared theirs is that All utility let's read what this guy says. How do you trade based on volatility volatility if all is not there I won't look at volume if all is he is there Nice that's a good one Thank you for sharing oh Here we go if you if you tweet these I share them automatically You Nice let's see here what challenges challenges have you faced learning elbows right here boy First of all lack of information on the internet like strategy etc Secondly just the basics of how you start like beginner tutorials What specifics are you looking for Maybe I can whip up maybe I can whip up some new vids Oh snap this guy won So I'll be sending that Soon Well, I should send that now honestly. Yeah, since I got a minute. Oh look no breakouts detected perfect So now we're back go read rob carvers book Who's rob carver? Amazon Rob carver trading Advanced futures trading strategies Copy link address You I'll buy it Hardcover buy now 41 Yeah, this is just gonna make everything better, you know, I buy this stuff because If I can read it and then you know to tell you the secrets that's awesome Right so I just try to read everything Try to read everything be So what's my total 41 49 so heavy book be but so I'm good anything for you to anything for you Anything for you my guy And for me it's really for me, but I'll share anything I find Um trading I have spent $200 on books in the last five days just looking at my note here Okay, so we can see all the breakouts now and there's none of them none of them are breaking out Okay, well, that's pretty unhelpful Let's go here and say I want to go ahead and take the How do we decide? Thank you, bro just bought it Okay, so perfect I've shared my top memes twice today So that's that let's go here and Let's say um For symbol in symbols Open orders and um set Take profit and stop loss. That's it I don't want all this but You For symbol in breakout the uh You Open order perfect and open order and And Elegan tree. I'm just gonna call this an elegant tree. I'll uh get Open Order deluxe Open order deluxe that's what we're gonna call it dude Why is it deluxe because I don't think TP I Don't think I've done it this way here on this On here. Yeah, yeah, I haven't I don't do it that way. So this is gonna be new stuff here New stuff never before seen actually Um, I'm gonna put the symbol Take profit and stop loss Okay Okay, that's it. I don't need to calculate the stop loss since the symbol take profit and stop loss symbol info All right, that's what we're gonna build here in the second You All right, let's see how with things how we can fix this So okay Too option to Nah, I think we gotta do the deluxe. I was gonna say we could have just our p-node clothes running But I think we got the looks kill switch Just kill switch for position and position Kill switch symbol account So this closes the order perfect But we're not gonna do it that way. I want to go ahead and investigate because I haven't done this yet I usually use the kill switch different way I use a p-node clothes instead of a stop loss So Go ahead and investigate this Hyper-liquid documentation hyper-liquid doc augmentation Okay, get up API Dev Seekai Assets examples examples Everliquid basic add in basic order basic market order Basic spot schedules basic spot basic spot the per basic subject Basic transfer basic withdrawal cancel open orders Really is just the basic order maybe modify basic order with ID basic leverage adjustment we have that basic added Market open You Look at for some always stop losses You You All right, so I need the stop loss and take profit. Let's say hyper-liquid stop loss You My open on my discord here and see if I can find something in there So Here we go is the discord and let's go ahead and say um Just say window high example for stop loss in the API This is literally me Literally me and that was like two years ago or a year ago You You Okay, look at this. This is awesome It's awesome awesome awesome sauce You You Okay, so this works for the stop loss Death main conf account place order Hasn't that stop At least they say so so let's go ahead here and let's put it in here Check it out You tills.config okay I'm gonna move this out of here for now and get back to here Trigger Do I say that somewhere else yeah right there Okay, let's go ahead here and say config okay Test net constants that test net exchange okay order results order is by 202 amount Okay Okay, this is how we do a stop loss You Above is how we put an order in using a stop loss and take profit And then let's go ahead to our regular order order Limit You Let's get this running here again So we can have an example And then we change this to this again Okay Just want that example of the how the breakouts are gonna look Please update with a new function Using this below Using My limit order in combination with the above Stop loss I've order To make a function called open order deluxe Which will Connect to the exchange Like I'm Like I do in the second function But then it puts in the order Like it does in the first function I've started this code Scroll down to the bottom where we start this code here And then As you can see I pass in symbol info Which will be a row of adf like below So Trending let's go find that data frame here Trending symbol breakout tokens Okay You can see that this Symbol info has the Stop loss and take profit Already in there And the entry price Which we will use as the limit order price Please Output the Full function Okay, let's see if they can do that. I hope that was a good prompt. I hope that made sense to you. It made sense to me dude So I can only help hope that it made sense to you as well Jane good morning 777 so glad that you are here and you have a arrived So let's see what gbt does here So you can see here that it went ahead and made the open orders deluxe Symbol symbol yeah, this is perfect. Okay Let's go ahead and check it out. Let's see how it does here. It's not going to work right away, but that's okay Orders are flying through here As you can see okay So let's go ahead and close this now okay And we'll see here how this works so it says config get config. I don't want all that but Web 3 and 4 web 3 okay Why do you need web 3b Just delete all of this Need to get my limit order here Just because this is not getting connected to the exchange like we want it You Pass in the account as well How do we do this in a limit order though we pass in the account interesting So limit order we pass in the account. Okay, where is the account at the account Count Do we have it up here are we passing the kill switch here Okay, but what about the account well, let's go look at one of our old data or one of our old bots here And we can see here that we do pass in the account here So account one is this okay Let's put this in our bot here. So I'm gonna close this and I'm also going to close this and I'm gonna close this because now I'm getting confused close this Close this close this Read me here. That's for us Nice function here. That's for us Okay breakout bot here. We want to get the account here. So let's go ahead and say account one eith account Oh snap So let's go back to that one here that we have And this one should get the eith account and all that good stuff So let's go ahead here and And Pour all this stuff just in case Well, not just in case we need it We need it for show for show we can remove the Time and schedule Time we can remove Schedule we can remove Quest we can remove and as we can remove Move Remove that Okay, nice functions and wise okay Don't share config secret perfect. Okay, so I think this is Gucci now And I can go down here and I say open deluxe order, but I need to also pass in the account one Like that okay, so now we're passing in deluxe order we're passing the symbol here Let's go to the bottom here and see what's Gucci over here and see if we got everything underlined printing okay Print Connected to the exchange You symbol nice Nice With the lead this You Symbol is by entry price good tell off Entry prices that These three different orders were put in there It's weird I mean is that what the discord said You Mean let's try it out That's all we can really do So let's see if we get this order in here how much is it for those a question So I'm just gonna do it on with only because I don't know The other ones price I know the price of this one I can afford So symbol size we have passed on size bro Order size Order usd size Size Let's just put that here for now order usd size equals one Okay, and then here we need to pass that in as well. So order usd size order usd Size here, okay, and then when we put a limit order in how do we do that Position size here position size is this It's size the absolute size Kill kill switch though Is by size okay sizes this how do we do it here When we're saying limit order limit order position size here how do we get position size here well Hmm Symbol Leverage account okay, so let's use this to Change that so let's put leverage here, and I'm gonna use just a tiny bit of leverage Because I saw the drawdown of that and I know it's You can handle three. I mean, I don't know if that's for real. So might get linked It It might get linked be so for symbol and symbol here It's a just size first leverage position size okay, so here and we go here and This adjusts the leverage here, so that's great The account value is 95% so So It's not really what I want to do for this one Hmm, I see what's happening So I should gonna make a new one here And this is gonna be a just Side adjust leverage size And USD size okay, so we pass in the symbol and the leverage in the account Off A specific USD Dollar amount okay, so that's nice here account value is this and I think it's just this be Leverage account symbol USD size okay And then we would just say this times leverage So I just delete that okay, I think that should be Gucci now So this should update the leverage so whatever leverage we have Set um, it should say price is getting asked bit and then it's gonna go ahead and say size is USD divided by price and that's gonna get the size because it's gonna round it do all that thing those things we need here And then we're gonna go ahead and say size here. So here. I'm gonna go ahead and essentially scroll down to or scroll back to new dot this and I'm passing all of this information So let's just copy it over nicely and slowly here USD order size Here it is and I'm actually gonna move that here to be at the top though Okay Okay, so USD order size is let's say five dollars Well, it's $10 is the minimum I believe so Let's do that um, so we're passing in order size leverage And then the account one perfect so USD size now this is Gucci to be the out of here get out of here I don't want you here anymore. I want you here, but not not that here not that not that not that So it's good to have everybody here 777 much love to everybody out there I'm using hybrid liquid on this one Jane Okay, um, please do me a favor and smash the like button if you haven't already You All right, I just set a pull up so you know go ahead and hit that pole hit the do what it does Do what it does and I'll keep streaming here for The until this is done and if you get that done then I keep going until I'm done and I'm gonna show you every single step of the way here. We're building on hybrid liquid today, so I've really quit is a perfect X Okay, so let's keep it going here So let's see if this actually makes the order. I don't think it will but You know, let's make sure there's enough prints here Um, oh, I should probably put all of this too I Just wanted to check really quickly before I go too deep into this Because I feel like I've done this somewhere but Okay, I'm gonna mark this out. So then don't he hairs I'm gonna make sure there's a bunch of prints here. So take profit Opening order Okay, I think this is Gucci. So let's run this and see if we can get an order through Just testing right now. So it's only using one token So this leverage is now set to three and that's awesome status. Okay, response. Okay With this is the price with zero death decimals. This is the price zero decimals That doesn't look right but With This is the price Let's go ahead say this is the Print bit of us this is the ask I think there's an error there You This is the ask Print out string I see this error don't worry about that. I'll fix that in a second. I haven't even got to that one yet How does even got to that one go ahead and tap that like button every like helps so so much So I appreciate you guys all for being here past. I love behind the Lizzie You Oh as size death smooth You Was like what is going on there So this is the price. I'm just gonna put our skin there for now Okay, we can remove all of this now. Let's delete it Save it. Okay This says it takes five position or takes five positions, but six were given So let's go look at that here bottom So it needs the order Symbol info You Want this to grab the whole row Is this just needs the symbol info the usd size It shouldn't need the take profit and stop loss Because it's got the symbol info Okay, so since it doesn't need that then we can delete these here all of these actually Now that should match up maybe So it should just be three things that were passing in perfect I think it should pass in the whole breakout the uh That inner rows. Yeah, dude Print F This is Okay, let's do that first save both sides Save both sides. Okay, let's go ahead and run it back run it back be run it back Just keep running it back until the job is done be This is the symbol info here. Okay, look at that symbol info Symbol take profit. Okay Entry price Okay, this is symbol info here. Let's make this a little easier to read actually Print symbol info. I guess you got to see the structure of this then this says Down here it says symbol symbol info in 169 or 162 a breakout brought 162s right here. Okay, that was probably that This is position changing. Oh, we need to pass in the symbol here The symbol equals Symbol equals symbol info One print F passing symbol to Adjust leverage Okay, all right sick and then we're gonna pass in the symbol info here and say print This is the symbol info I don't know if that's gonna work actually Print opening order. Oh, so this worked fine here for symbol info, but what symbol It needs to be updated here to be symbol info or symbol um I'm just gonna update it because I forget Okay Update this so it grabs the symbol from the df correctly Okay, there we go Yeah, that was weird thinking I looked a little weird, but Do we even use symbol though? Let's go ahead and look at the breakout data Yeah, we do Okay, let's go back to the breakout bot here and say this here Okay symbol equals that symbol info print symbol. Okay Now let's go ahead and run it and it should adjust the leverage. Okay Here and keep smashing that Lizzy every time you hit the like I just keep going or just keep going I'm gonna keep going that motivates me so much. Please. Thank you Print symbol info here. Okay, this looks like an error here That's Malamia Malamia Malamia Okay, we'll get it done here the air. Oh, look at that. Did you see that? Breakout bot 161 breakout bot. That's here You Okay, let's do it this way then do You You Use a high-lock bro We gotta use I lock you use I lock you You I don't need all this baby girl Thank you for it, but I don't need it all You Oh, she's doing this thing the bed Just send me back this function It's interesting. I just keeps keeps doing this, but let's see if we can figure this out This is not hard stuff here. I'm just being a little slow today as usual Okay, so now it's doing it correctly, which is nice You Nice dude Look at this symbol info opening order for with Yeah, perfect Oh Snap it's actually Um, yeah, that's fine Here I'm just gonna rename this stuff to sll and stop loss sl It's gonna be TP sl TP okay, this is great because sl This is uh, we've made it all the way here and this is the hard part This is the hard part dude, so if you have any Questions or anything please do let me know and um, I'm gonna pick my new top four here Just because I it's been about an hour and I need to pick my top four every hour or else. I'm gonna miss them Is the top volume tokens on Solana, so I Like Solana right now I like this little guy Shark hat every time It's Kermit still though And this dog so I have the same top four pretty much. I mean it changed up a little bit So let's go ahead and post it and anybody that posts their stuff. I go ahead and retweet it as well, so Feel free Go ahead and run this and see if we can get it to run the orders are flying in right now as you can see at the bottom Oh Big lick on btc here, so price is going down You can see opening order for a whiff. Okay, stop loss is not defined Of my bad. I didn't change that one Oh Big lick big. Oh my goodness. That's a three million dollar lick right there That's a big that's the biggest one I've seen in a minute where we at Okay, that's a whole these smokes. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah That really wrecked somebody right there three mill I haven't seen that in a week But I haven't been watching it all times just like I would mark this point right here as a massive liquidation That's all I'm doing Because I have a theory that I'm just kind of watching Just watching slowly if you know what I'm saying dude There's no speed that's needed here but If you want to be fast fast fast that's fine. I go slow slow slow Because I know we got time time time That was a major liquidation here, so I want to see how price reacts to it We'll keep an eye on it. I put that line there and we can come back to it Okay, let's go back here and says stop loss is not defined in nice funks 1082 I didn't save it bro The moon dev mistake typical typical So you can see here. Let's see if it goes ahead and puts the order in Oh nice nice Invalid size Okay, so all of them didn't work, but hey at least it um This usd size is incorrect. That's why I forgot about that part So this actually gets the position size that we want and that's gonna be right there. So boom It's might work dude. I'd be amazing This is what happens when you just build on top of what you're building, you know I teach all this stuff in the bootcamp in case this is too fast for you I teach literally everything and I show you all of my code and I try to show as much code as possible here on YouTube But of course, I have to work. I have to get I have to keep moving forward So I have all of the nice functions and all that good stuff everything is there So you can see it's still having the error. So let's go ahead here and say order size Size like that, okay, let's go ahead and see what we what we went wrong here. This should pass back the Size position size here you can see size print This this is the this is the Size of crypto we will be using Okay And then paste in Size here and size Okay there and then we'll say Here in the Oh Look at that. That's why My bad It's invalid size because I didn't put the size in there, bro That's my bad typically is These These orders are absolutely going crazy here I have a lot of different ideas to work with this liquidation This liquidation data here and 3.3 million dollar liquidation is huge Let's see if there we can get another one Let's get them all let's get them all It's liquid liquidate everybody I'm just kidding. I hope you're not out there right now trading by hand Because these are all hand traders that are getting liquidated. I can assure you of that Because algorithmic traders don't get liquidated There's zero point There's zero reason for an out of the trader to ever get liquidated Liquidation costs are crazy So Another huge liquidation Holy Holy You That is wow. This is this is definitely the biggest licks. I've seen in a long time $8.1 million dollars wow Wow, wow, wow, wow, wow That's a massive massive moves here That's insane. I haven't seen this in a long long time Now we're just getting started. This is how we shake everybody out Got to shake everybody out Oh coin base down bad Dang, this is wahai yo You You The major major liquidation there Really amazing to see live like this I'm shocked every day every time I see that every time I see something like that holy smokes you know they're getting reg having a bad bad day But my hypothesis is is the market makers move to these huge liquidations And then reverse it so we'll see throughout this stream if that's true or not Not here to say it's actually true or not, but We'll see we'll see You Test low down bad not that bad But Yeah, this is this is amazing. This is such an airdre here That's why it's like one of the first things in the boot camp. I have you built So day zero. I have you build this because I think it's one of the best things One of the best data sources here To look at now. I'm not saying it's gonna reverse right now I'm just saying that if somebody is in eight million dollars of position They don't want to sell So this right here is just these bars are Them getting liquidated They're not trying to sell these are hand traders that went long up here They don't want to sell at all so So That's why I watched these liquidations come in and you can see eight million right off the top like that Some wild behavior that some wild wild behavior. Let's keep working on our bot here I will keep an eye on those liquidations at the bottom This is my sniper bot running This is these are the liquidations these are the massive liquidations here you saw a couple huge ones came in here Damn it's actually more than Yeah, it's even more than I thought but Yeah, so if people are getting wrecked here and while they get wrecked I'm gonna pick my top four already got my top four so I shared my top four here These are all the Solana highly traded in the last hour so every hour this It's always watching the top hour volume and um we're building out a bot here on hyper liquid So let's go ahead and keep it building So now that those are fixed I think I said size on all three of these yet The unfortunate part is I can't log on to the exchange right now Because I can't jump on the V So Nice it's resting Perfect perfect Okay, so invalid stop loss price asset 98 Okay, I'm gonna cancel this order if I can I Feel like I should be able to set the orders here Oh, you know what I think I have this somewhere. Yes, Mool. Yes. I love when you do that Keep doing that. Please I'ma go dark Keep doing that dude. I love this stuff so so much. I Always have it somewhere else and I can just always get it faster because we've been here for so long now Every single day for the last long time. I don't know how many years it's been but time is irrelevant dogs So I'm just gonna keep going I don't know about YouTube, but I'ma keep going You can do what you want to do dude, but I'm gonna let everybody else trade by hand and I'm just gonna keep Viren out here with the algos, man Because these liquidations I do not want them to be me. No, no, no, no, not me So I'm gonna stick with the algos you do you though? All right, if you need my help I can help you here every day Here every day dog No way did I delete it Oh So sad Might delete it while I was looking for looking on my server right now That's trash You It's market order That's all TP No TP in that one No dice V no dice no easy ways out here It's all good. I like it dog. I like it the hard way. We got to write this by hand. That's fine So let's see trigger prices this okay I think it just needs to be a string be So we know this order works Let's put a time dot sleep here so we don't order again time dot sleep Actually, let's just mark it out for now So we're not gonna put in the order anymore this works It's put a to-do here to do uh Unmark Out cuz it's uh Oh Working I just need to just need to test the Stab loss and take profit okay What I want to see here particularly is the print F entry price And the type of the entry price So I just say type Okay, then I'll be able to see the type of the take profit as well It's saved up okay, so now we're trying to put the orders in with the stop loss and take profit Yo, why didn't it save? That's super weird Slow Entry price she says that's not what I wanted actually Well is it Entry price here oh I didn't put a sleep that's why So it did what it did Files it's a float okay Okay, so we got that that's good um What's my That's me You Invalid take profit stop loss price You Need to look this up so Sorry, this is a little distraction, but my internet upload Speed is fast Why does it upload slow You Just uploading a video right now and it's taking ages to upload, but I have like mad fast owner You Feel like it'd be so much easier debug if I could jump on to that internet or Jump on to the exchange, but I can't jump on to the exchange because I'm uploading a video and Want a VPN I can't get on a VPN to break that video upload So I'm not gonna do it but Is this how Try to forget that out later, but It's annoying Because these floats look good You Here let's I'm gonna hard code this in and to see if this fixes it Because you can see it's supposed to be Let's say uh pigs here Uh, that's It's not it um You Say leverage We've got this thing here that somewhere here You Is this right here Okay, we're gonna put that we're gonna flip both through this Let's see here Just put this here and get the rounding here And then just say uh Round TP and stop loss Okay, there we go stride out now So this is getting the rounding again For the symbol the symbols that Eyes of nine okay Keeping on baby Big profit 4.0 that's not right. That's not right. Sorry Still wrong rounding Ice decibels so we need to do two zero two Zero one. Sorry Forget where coders now where coders bay So let's say That's gonna work better I mean it should not for sure, but Yeah, so you know how I've been on a trip right so I'm back now My upload speed says it's like 600 But it's actually not or it doesn't feel like 600 at least You You It's not interval Oopsies, that's why I see what I saw. I saw what's happening here Looks like another BC or this BCH You know say another VTC liquidation Nice it got it all right. That's what it was perfect So now it has the stop loss and the take profit in there Perfect dude. All right. That's it. That's it. We did it um Now what Yo, this is so sick You know What else do we need to do here because since we're putting the We're breaking out here. This breaks out. This is how we get our breakout bot and From there It's putting the stop loss and take profit in there. We don't need any of these You know Yo, that's it dog here. Let's change it. Let's change it to a new symbol here and say uh So but this is going to be multiple symbols. Remember I'm gonna get symbols a programmatic way We're looking for a specific strategy and that's a breakout strategy and we've already done all that here so That's quite nice. So you can see this one soul. Let's see if it opens the order. Oh, I didn't I don't have the order open So let's go ahead and unmark this here I need to think this through After we do this so after we do this I'm gonna grab some water and uh then I'm gonna think it through what else do we need Because you know there's always something I miss But this I like this because That's the sole size $10 yeah, that sounds about right limit price. Okay, it got the order IDs. Oh my god This is amazing. All right, so we opened the order for soul to um Okay, so now let's think this through Let me get some water and then I'm gonna think it through I think what I'm gonna do now is just go ahead and change this stuff back While I think about this stuff that we're missing Ha ha you know because you know that always it's always how it goes Um, I took a lot of time on this you know I took multiple days and I hope that makes it super clear the process right Processed automate your trading at least the one that I live by you know do you if you're a D gen right now gambling by hand on the charts Um, and you want to be a D gen with trading bots then those D gen's are just kind of jump to bots and get wrecked But you know, I'm trying to show you what I actually do. Well, I that's all I can really do actually show you what I do because I'm now here just making videos and make videos. I'm out here working essentially So You're just in my office here every single day and I'm grateful you're here That's why I should I you know put it down into a three-step process For me and you really everything here is for me and you I'm doing more And I'm glad you can join so much love to you seven seven seven throw that like on the video throw Don't that seven seven seven in the chat. This is the process that we've broken down over a few days research trading strategies backtests Those trading strategies and then implement into bots if they are profitable if they're profitable So we backtested we stress tested a bit and um now we implemented to a bot Let's go ahead and run this bot this bot is going to scan through every single token on hyper liquid And figure out okay that didn't work Oh my god, this begins I have to this is my bad So I need to change this to get symbols instead of our test symbols I'm just gonna say for testing quickly It's gonna go through every single symbol and look at the daily see what the resistance is then once we break daily resistance is gonna look for hourly break in resistance and Long that hourly break with a certain stop loss and take profit and Yeah, that's pretty cool because we built it all here at you saw the entire process so every single piece of it that I've used you've Every single piece every single code that I have used you've seen it here It's all in this this video So you can see it's getting the resistance levels and while it does that I want to go ahead here and go to just another bot that is finished Because then I can just be like okay, well Do I have everything in there for real for real or not Let's go to this three one It doesn't matter these are all very similar So let's scroll down here and think about things So let's get our note sheet out yeah Oh, you know what I've been wanting to use a little bit just because everybody's hyping this up so hard Let's use a little of this this app called notion You're Your connected workspace for wiki And this way I'll be able to share this stuff with you or I don't know we'll see how this turns out if I stick I like to use my My notes my apple notes, but they're all clearly lacking a lot of things You know Log in get notion free Okay, uh continue with Google For personal use continue Personal finance to do list habit tracker project tracking Sue project tracking Right Okay, so Project planner Change cover You You Change cover for sure I don't like it I'm just gonna do this one for now, so when I like the most of Okay project planner You could see it's getting all the resistance level to Oh, yeah, okay Uh Trading bots Trading algorithms The process of automating your trading Starts with research Of trading strategies Then back test those strategies To see if they Actually Work in the past If they do They are not guaranteed But Much more likely to work in the future RBI Research Backtest You Implement Research You can't see this huh Research trading strategies And alpha Generation oh look at this is actually opening a position right now so Let's see here. This is our algo. Thank we need to we're we're still thinking through it is breaking. It's not breaking but Oh, there's only one position to be opening the and it opened it resting statuses sick bro So the price this is the price here the entry price is eight four eight one so pretty much market ordered Stop loss is that and then okay sick dude So now what's it gonna do yeah, this is good. This is good What's it gonna do here it's gonna run every 15 minutes oh That's something boom Build the bot So So what other things I need to do here is make sure the bot only enters If no open position that's one thing I need to do right now actually so that's why I put it on here Okay, this is pretty easy to use research practice general and alpha general ration techniques Google scholar YouTube read it Ah, it's really YouTube Google scholar But it's really in books YouTube podcasts and honestly I'm trying to write these in order actually so You Practice You Use Now it's not two years minimum use Pass open high low close open high low close volume data in order to back test your The strategy and And Oh look at this it's gonna keep ordering see that's why I need to order that right now I need to do that right now where index and index if index If symbol not position okay Um, I'm gonna kill this for now Because I want to finish writing this up Uh use open high low close data in order to Backtest the strategy If profitable Implement I'll just say that implement If the backtest is profitable So implement Into a trading But with tiny size And scale slowly As Result Match back test I don't want to like they how to scale that's how I look at it, but Uh, this is me This is just just for my stuff. This is for me to see you know, I description no way Oh Oh look big lick on ethos. See what's going on So I didn't see any liquidations earlier on ethos that ethos got come down here and liquidate people But I don't know Here to make predictions So You can see coin down bad tesla You know down the video Ish down Interesting ethos so holding up All right, let's keep going here though So trading algorithms out of builds You This should be uh research You You search trading stress and alpha generation Backtest You You The events is checklist the one word or two words We use one You You All right, so sick. I don't know what is this thing though. I don't want a deadline here You Say done for this one Done for this one And in progress for this one. Okay, what are some things that we built here so I can just remember for next time Um You Connected to the account Connect to the exchange Oh Not gonna. I don't need to do that. That's that's a very basic one B Implement risk Implement strategy Into bot Implement risk Controls into bot Um double check double check Make sure size and price Um decimals are correct or orders Huh Uh L Uh Hello implement buys and sells. See if I can put a new sub item here. For take profit and stop loss. For orders with TP NSL. Or order with P&L close. Make all of them done. Make all of them done. I don't care about that too much. If implement buys and sells. If implement at risk controls. Make sure the bot only opens. So all low . Th gets afraid. Okay that's big. Un s. Use backtesting.py in order to backtest. It's on multiple symbols. Well, optimize the backtest to find best variables plus analyze matrix. Backtest on multiple symbols and timeframes to build operatives. It's really what it is. Build confidence. Define the scope of renovation. Backtest. Let's go ahead and delete this one for now. I don't think about what to do right now. Set up the wall to schedule. It'd be nice if I could open. Stop it. This is way better than Apple Notes. I have to give it to him. I'm going to use this for everything. Delete this. Let's see how we're doing it. Let's see how we're doing it. I get it now. I get it why everybody uses it. How do we expose it? Is Notion a private company or public company? Notion Crunchbase. Condax. 500 and wood. Series C founded in 2016. Okay, well, looks like it's just a private company. It's cool. It's a good product. I like it. Okay, so implement buys and sells. Orders are flying in. Let's go ahead and make sure to... This is in progress. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Let's see how I can make this better. Okay. Let's implement trading by... Delete this one here. Okay. I got this all set up here. So now I don't have to think... I'll add anything that's needed here to that. And... See, it's all right here. So... I think the first thing we need to do here is for that symbol here. Let's go ahead and make sure to only order if we don't already have a position. So check if we have a position of that symbol. Yup. Yup. If... Then if not... If not... I'm in position. Yup. Yup. It's exactly what we want. All right. Not in position. Not in position. Position for... And then else... Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa. I don't want all of that. That's all I want. There we go. That'd be cool if GBT was listening to me right now. On GitHub, go pilot. That'd be dope. That'd be dope. That'd be dope. They should add that for sure. They should add that. Actually, in fact, they better add that. Okay. I'm just going to go ahead and make this a little faster because... Well, I guess it doesn't matter which one we use. Let's do it for both. Yeah, yeah, let's test both. So, I think we should have a whiff position at this point. We've been doing a lot of testing with it. So, let's see. We shall see. Let's go ahead and hear and print resistance levels. Okay. Let's just go ahead and run it. And I think this should do what we wanted it. Because now we're checking if I'm in position here. Oh, but the thing we don't check or we fixed, neither of these are breaking out. Neither of these are breaking out anymore at least. And since that's the case, I had to switch that back. Breakout detected. It's not real, but big lick here on Solana. So, that's interesting. I've had over $8 million of liquidations here. So, this will be the size. Okay, wait, wait, wait. Is it, I thought that we were in position. I don't know. Are we? Maybe we're not. Maybe we're not. Now, it's going on turbo. So, let's see what it does. Already in position for turbo. Okay. So, we weren't in position for whiff. Look, that just worked. That was awesome, actually. Because that showed everything we needed. That did exactly what we needed. You know, it showed that, hey, we weren't in position for whiff. So, it went ahead and put the buy order, the other limit order, the take profit and stop loss. I sure hope those work. I sure hope they're working. Because that video is still uploading. It's wild. And I know it's something weird with my ISP or something like, I hope they're not listening right now, but they're doing some funny business. Maybe it's the router or something that's slowing it down. I get the Wi-Fi slower when you're doing Wi-Fi. But, yo, what up, Doug? What up, Captain Blockchain? How are you guys? I want to add another one, honestly. Check a launch bot with tiny size. 10 is hyper-liquid minimal. So, start there. Okay. Is that what I did? That's what I did. I do what I say, B. Already in a position of a turbo, 15 minutes might be a little long now. Do every one minute about that. Okay, set up the whole schedule run every minute or so. Ready to get to it, Doug's size. Good morning, good morning. Okay, so it's still entering into with, oh, we got to make sure to cancel orders. Yo, so I wonder why. Okay, let's see what the price is. The price is 328. Entry price is 328, 7b. The show is filled, actually. So, let's see if this actually works because, oh, this is the PNO perk for turbo, 10%. Um. OID. So, this one says it's filled. I don't want to see if it goes ahead and says the thing is, again, if it tries to order again, if it does, then I don't think it's good. That reminded me of something though, and that's why I'm making this list. Checking it twice. Cancel all orders before opening and order. And I might already do that. I hope I do at least, but I don't think so, to be honest. So, let's go check out our order. Yeah, I don't do that. So, I know I have a cancel here. Cancel all orders. Yup. I'm just going to put it a couple places, B. Let's see here. Just going to put it right there. Am I sure I wanted there though? Yes. Hmm. I wonder how we can cancel all the orders, but just for a symbol. Make sure I just pass in the, see here. Go to definition here. Cancel all, for cancel coin, got it. So, order, open order. Wait, wait, do I have it? I don't know if I have it. I don't know if I have it. You can see that it... Breakouts detected for width. Nice, it didn't order it. Wait, what's going on here? How's it closing the position? Killswitch has been called. Okay, we need to come back to this. What do I do here? How do I get like a note sheet? Um... Figure out how to cancel orders or coin instead of all coins. Super simple. Okay, that's what we're going to do next, but for now, you see it's closing the position. It hit all, it closed all positions. We have this weird function here somewhere. And check breakout. Oh my goodness, these orders are flying. ETH look, it's getting licked. Oh my goodness, gracious. There we go, I told you it was going to go down there and liquidate this guy at least. It might even have another one here. But... I told you, I told you, shut the f up, you don't know anything. You don't know anything. I did be marking these liquidation points because they're super interesting. This was $8 million of liquidations right here. And that suggested that there was no yeast liquidations though. Well, I guess there was actually... But... Whatever. Whatever, whatever, whatever. So, this is the weird thing here. And it was coming from a just... It was from this in max position size, get position and max position size. I don't want that. I just want to get position. So, I have this function. Yeah, and I don't need to use it. So, get position. Say... Huge, eithlic. Whoa. Alright, half a meal off the rack like that. Big licks today, big licks. Robinhood has nice little pole back. You know, I hate Robinhood, but... There's not much bias there. Okay, I want to go ahead here. And... And only enter if not... Get position. So, we're going to do that. We're going to use that one instead. I was malamiya. So, whatever, though, I'm going to use that one instead. I'm going to use that one instead. I was malamiya. So, whatever, though, it's funny because it worked out because that one was up like... 9%. But there's leverage, so it was up 9%. So, there's max positions here. So, I can pass in this, get position. Or I can pass in this, get position. And it has max positions on it. That's cool. I like that. I like that a lot. Yo. Yo, I can't believe I share. I literally put all this here. It's all on YouTube, dude. And... I keep doing it. I had to shock myself sometimes. Okay, let's go ahead and make sure that this is... Get position. Kill switch. This is going to be better. Okay, there we go. Now, we should enter into both these positions. They should both show us true, but I need to send it back. I need to set it back. I need to set it back. Remind that. Remind me of that. Here. Double check. Turn any debugging back to normal. I won't ever have to ask that again. Yo, I like this notion thing. It's cool with me. It's cool with me. I'm not a big fan of this big thing, but... Here's the notes I was working on before, so let's go look at those. Why are you going to be so big, me? Oh, that's way better. Oh, and it didn't give me out of position because it's not doing market closes. Perfect. Perfect, perfect. So, it's already in a position for Turbo. Now it's down. It's down back. Holy moly. BTC. Getting another two-mill off the top. I need to change the titles of this. I'm going to change the title of this video because this is getting gnarly out there, fellas. Let's go ahead here and open it up here. Oh, another three-mill. No. This is wild. So, I got to put that a marker there too. This was another three-mill. Wow, wild stuff here. So, you can see all the liquidations, all the orders coming through here. So, these were the 12 million dollars in liquidations, I think. 12. 12 million dollars. 12. It's really insane. I don't understand it either. I don't understand it either. I wonder why people get liquidated 10, 12-mill, three-mill. Three-mill right off on this one. Three-mill here. So, two big positions to the already in a position for Turbo. Turbo is down bad. Actually, it's 0.41. It's not down bad. That's amazing. I think this is it. I'm going to sit here and work on this a little bit because I want to cancel the orders by... Maybe I have that already, though. Cancel. Am I already have that? Oh, I just do this, dude. Here, I'm not going to do it because... You rather do it more of a way that's here forever, but I could have just... I could have just made a... Use the line of code. It's just one line of code. But it's okay. I'm not going to do that that way. I'm going to go ahead and do it this way. Cancel. Symbol. Orders. Count. And then also I'm going to move in the symbol here. And... I'll delete all of this. And just do... Cancel. I don't know if that's going to work, though. Let's print open orders here. And then let's go put this here in the... function that we made. And this symbol will be... Put this down here then. Cancel orders, account, and then symbol. Time. Let's run it back. Short liquidated on turbo. That's funny because that's the token that we're... Print. Order has zero size. What's going on there? Lot of liquidations today. I'm just going to do this with only with here. But it seems like whatever we did here is working. But did we just... Oh, okay. We're going to take this out so we can only see one. It's going to be much better. This is symbol with size. No, that's turbo. Open above are the open orders. Need to cancel any. We have size is zero, not in position. Oh, it's because I updated the size. Yeah, look at that. Okay. Update the position size. Make this size. Passing size here. I was wondering what's going on with that. It says, error order has zero size. So, there we fix that. And I'm just going to test something here. I'm going to put the order, the price here. Entry price as something I picked. Oh, man, I got changed back a lot. Change back entry price. Deluxe. And... Entry price. Entry price. We're going to put as $2. Okay. So now it's going to enter it too. And then we're going to be able to test our cancellation. Entry price too good. Rest in perfect. Open order on with perfect, perfect. Now let's go up to the cancel. Simple orders here. Print orders. Time.sleep. Uh, five, six seconds. Okay. Okay. So this is the where we wanted it. Okay. But, you know, that's cool and all. But I want to see here if this works. Really? Oh, my goodness. Oh, snap. I just messed things up. I'm just going to try exchange that cancel. Exchange that cancel and then the symbol. Let's see if that works. Okay. Okay. That doesn't work. But that's fine. Let's just not do it that way. I can, I was just trying to be lazy. But, you know how that's that goes. Triby lazy. Let's do the first right. The first way. You know. Let me just go ahead and put six seconds here again. Okay. So, I've got this code here. I've got this code above and it cancels. Oh, snap. Cancels all orders in the open orders. But really, I just want it to cancel the orders for the symbol, which is the coin in the print open orders below. Please update the code to do so. I could have just been done with that. I should have just gone straight for the jugular and just do it right the first time. Just do it right the first time. That's all. I'm just going to do it right the first time from here on out. So, I started my little notion here is because now I don't have to sit here and try to think. Oh, my God. Another 400 off the rack. Check it out. Let's check it out. Okay. I mean, the steasest of buying there is not a thing. It's 10 million. And I mean, I don't know. It's just, yeah, yeah, that's fine actually. It just depends on your time for it. It shouldn't really be looking at these charts. It's just nice for intraday. But you can see a 1% move from the 10 million liquidation. And then how much more has there been? There's been 4, 5 million more. So, that's interesting to watch. Interesante. Let's go ahead here and try this new code out. This one should work. Looks good to me. Yeah, if coin equals symbol, that makes sense. Canceling order. Okay. That looks pretty legit. Above the open orders. And then it can't sell that order. Nice. So now, let's go ahead and run it back. And then there should be three orders, maybe. Yeah, there should be three orders. Exactly. Yep, look, AA, B. So, A's are... Yep, the stop loss intake profit. Yep. All right, see. These are reduced only truths. All right, this bar works great. So far, it's funny because I still... The video is still uploading. It's crazy, huh? So, I can't jump on the... The V. That's wild, huh? Oh my goodness. That was refreshing the page of that video that we've been waiting on this entire time. Really wild stuff here. Really wild stuff. Let's go ahead here and walk through this code again, because we haven't quite finished. I mean, I feel like we're done. But I want to just double check, because this is a done bot. Well, I guess not too done. I was using the random there. Stay a little hedged. We're getting the bid price, getting the ask price. How are we entering? Decide how we're entering. I'm going to go back to here. How are we entering? Limited, limit, limit, or market. Turn debugging back. Oh, good call, Doc. So, what did I do? What did I do? I put it here. Change back the Deluxe entry price. Deluxe. This note is already valuable to me. Okay, so entry price is back. And then we also had to change this back in the main, or else it's going to go crazy and buy everything. And then it's only going to enter if not in position. That's already been checked. Go back here, trading, I'll go check this here. So, implement into the trading bot. It's funny because this would be a better checklist than a thing. I literally said check with a new template. I wonder how you add more stuff into here. Whatever, it's not that important right now. Implement trading strategy. We've done that. Implement risk control. That is done. So, we're getting in my position. So, that's done. And that should be implement risk controls. And open orders, check desmos. I would move this. To here. Set up the while true. Cancel all orders before opening an order. And we have. And not cancel all orders. Or. Cancel symbol orders. Okay. Turn a debugging. How are we entering? Implement. This is number one. Oh nice. Check mark. Oh, they're just selecting it. Rest needs to be number one. Cancel all orders. Desmos adjustments. And not open order deluxe. Set up the while true schedule. And we're on every minute or so. This is done. This is done. This is done. Check position. That's done. I need to turn this into a checkbox. But it's all good. This is done. This is done. I think that's pretty good. I mean, I think there's going to be more I forgot. But whatever. I'll remember to do it later. And then I'll add it to the list. Google Scholar has PhDs writing about trading systems among strategies. Really. Read books on trading and traders. Study podcasts of great. Does even need to be a great trader's thing is anything can spark an idea. Well, videos I guess because I was going to say YouTube videos, but this really matter. I'm going to get backlog of ideas to back this. I just put ideas here. Stick with the table though. I know there's a kind of a checklist, but I think I'm going to stick with the table because I can do things like this. Now people are getting wrecked on the other side. Not crazy. I can only anticipate how many people went short here because people are just gambling and please stop gambling. I'm pretty much built anything. I've built all of these out goes here on this channel with you and I'll continue to do so. We're able to build this little game here and I need to actually do my new top four here. But this was also with Python. Everything is doable with Python. That's why I truly believe code is the great equalizer because for me is essentially the last thing I needed. I need to be able to build by myself, build on my own because the only way Algo training works is if you build your own edge and you're able to build your own algorithm with your strategy. I showed you a couple of places to find strategies here today. We went ahead and back tested a ton, a ton in order to find a strategy that looks pretty good. So I went ahead and then built it into a bot today. Now I got to see if this bot actually matches up with the back test. I'm going to take in on bot every four to 12 hours really. I mean, after a few hours and then every 12 hours I'd say. I mean, that's why I like to do it. When I launch one, especially, especially don't necessarily need to check it all out all the time. Let's go ahead here and see what else we can do here. Implement new back test. Okay, back test. Use optimize. So this is pretty much the circle I'm going to be going in. And I think for just each day, I'm just going to attack one if not multiple of these. Still be aware for new opportunities like this Solanus sniper that just popped up on us. And it took us down a road that I'm very, very, very grateful for. And today we went back to the old school to the traditional markets, which is nice. I've shown so, so much over the years how to build for these exchanges and whatnot. This is how you automate your trading, research, back test, and then implement. If it's looking like a winner, if it's not, then move on. It's all just move on to move on to the next one. Let's go ahead and pick my top ones here. See if there's any goodies. I still like this little pepe. And then of course this shortcut. Who's this little guy? Oh, I missed him. See if I can find him again. Who is he? Who's a selfie dog? Yeah, I've definitely seen this guy before. All these smokes. That's a wake up I've ever seen one. That is wild. I'm still going to be working with Jupiter and building bots over there as well. I'm thinking Jupiter hybrid liquid. DY DX I still use of course. I've just noticed that it's harder for others to fall along with that because it's kind of clunky to be honest. But I'll try to stick with those two for now. Just so everybody can see everything every single day. And you keep showing up. I keep showing up. Every single day. I'm going to keep coming up here live and showing you absolutely everything. If you need a helping hand in this process of automating your trading, I can hold your hand in the bootcamp and answer every single question that's going through your mind right now. I'm going to show you even how to code step by step. And I'm just a regular dude like you. So feel free to jump into the bootcamp. It's you can watch it at your own pace. You can learn how to code and then you learn how to build bots. Based off of your strategies that you've proven by back testing that they actually work. There's 100% money back guarantee always. So you can rest assured if you do take me up on this. Find the offer here of $69. You'll learn absolutely everything that you need in order to start this journey and build your own trading bot. It's all here step by step. Other than that, we'll see if these prices where these liquidations happened, mean anything. I'll keep an eye on it throughout today. When I see a lot of blue, I expect a lot of pink later. The question is is win, right? So I'm excited for you and your journey. You see the data sources I'm using. And every single day you see the things that I build. So I hope you have an amazing day, 7777. Much love to you. And I'll see you next time.