 What is going on in this video, I am going to show you how to build a crypto trading bot. And I'm going to give you so many different examples of crypto trading bots and strategies throughout this video course I've put together. It's unbelievable. If you're new here, my name is MoonDev and I help traders become algorithmic traders. And if you're returning, what's going on? Now if you've never built a trading bot before, specifically for crypto, you're going to want to watch this entire video. And if you have been working on a trading bot for crypto, I would still recommend to watch this entire video because I show so many different strategies put into trading bots. And I highly encourage you, even if this is your first time trying to build a bot and you don't know how to code, just watch the whole video and code along with me. I know it's intimidating. I didn't go to school either for engineering or math or computer science. The big banks, hedge funds, they want you to believe that you have to do like 10 years of school and you have to get a PhD in all this nonsense in order to build quantitative systems like these bots I'm building today. So don't worry about it. If you don't know how to code, just set out on the mission to automate your trading and you will learn how to build bots. And I show you everything in this video. So make sure to save it and watch it at your speed. And just remember that you can do this. If you've learned how to trade, you remember when you first saw it, you're going to be saw these candlestick bars? Yeah, like what did these even mean? Well there was a learning curve. You had to learn what the candlestick's meant. There's like 10 concepts in coding. It just looks weird and I promise you it's no more than being a professional Googler. And I know you're good at Googling. So if you're persistent, you can absolutely build these bots. I do believe in you. So if you have any questions, I'm here for you. And I've put together this entire course just so you can succeed. And this is what I do here on YouTube is I just open up my office for other people because my thoughts are, hey, I can build these bots for myself. And that's awesome. But if I can show other people how to build these bots as well, then different ideas are going to come from you than me. Because we both have different experiences in life. And hopefully you'll jump into Discord and we can be friends forever. But other than that, let's go ahead and jump into the course. And like I said, don't worry about it. Even if you don't know how to code, just code along with this is also high learned. Just coding along. And I had the thought of, hey, you know, if I could automate my trading, my strategies would perform so much better because there's no emotion in the way. And when you remove the emotion from trading, that's when you can really see if your strategy works because you don't have to worry about panic selling or panic buying or the good old FOMO or the panic. You know what I'm talking about if you've been trading. So let's go ahead and get into the course. Please do leave a like on the video. That's all I really ask. And I can't wait to show you these trading bots. So let's do it. I built a trading bot and it absolutely changed my life. It changed the way I trade forever. Because now I don't have to be emotional about it. So if you're struggling with emotions when it comes to trading, when the chart goes down, you want to sell or when the chart goes up, you want to buy. Or if you just don't want to stare at this screen all day, don't worry. You don't have to have some fancy degree building trading bots isn't just for the super smart developers out there. If you've learned how to trade and read these weird lines and these bar charts, you can absolutely do this as well. Essentially you're just laying out your rules and then putting them into a bot that will trade for you. So let's go ahead and just do that here today. This is why I do every single day. I'm an outlaw trader. I build new bots every single day. And I just build them on YouTube. So I can help instead of just myself, I can hopefully help you as well. So by the end of the video, if you watch the whole thing, you will know how to build your own bot. And we're going to build a specific type of bot today that I actually need to build. So you can trust me because I'm actually spending my time to build this today. And it's part of my daily work. Not just making a video here. So to do appreciate that, make sure to stick around because I'm going to show you absolutely everything in this video. I used to be that trader. Maybe it's like yourself right now that it's a little emotional and wants to sell when the position is going against you, but doesn't want to close out when the position is going in your direction. So I understand it. Or maybe I'll close out too early. This absolutely changed my life because now I don't make in-game decisions. Meaning I make all my decisions when I'm building my bot. And then my bot just trades from my 24th to my 365th. So let's build something today. Let's build a bot. Build a bot that looks for the biggest mover of the day. So whatever crypto is up the most. And then we'll look at the SMAs. So these red and green lines, these are the moving averages. We'll look at those. And based off of where they are, if the price is above them, we'll probably trade that biggest mover up to the upside. But if it's, the price is still below, we might actually look for the biggest loser. So also look for the biggest loser. And if prices seem to be under the moving average, I'm going to trade the biggest loser downwards. But if prices are above the moving average, I'm going to trade the biggest winner upwards. Does that make sense? So if BTC for example, let's go ahead and pull this up. For example, if we're looking at BTC, Ethereum and Solana. Solana is down 3%. BTC is down 1%. It looks like on the 15 minute where above the SMAs end of the law. So I would trade BTC upward because it's down less than Solana. But if we were under the SMAs on both along, I might trade Solana downwards. So we'll build this out as we go. But this is something that we wanted to build for a long time. So let's just go ahead and start coding it. And like I said, you don't have to be a super genius. I wasn't either. I learned how to do this because I knew I could improve my trading. And like I said, building a trade about has changed my life. So I'm happy to go ahead and just show you how to do this because I need to do it today anyway. So let's just go ahead and dive in. And the first thing I'm going to do is make some imports. So let's go ahead and say import pandas as PD. Import one call. Pandas is going to, it's like our Excel file for Python. One call is handling orders and data. And then we want to import time. Time handles time. We probably want to import schedule. And by the way, I'm here for you. So if you have any questions, you can post them below or in the discord. Do we need them by maybe? But let's go ahead and say no, we don't need the symbol. Let's say size equals one just because we're testing right now. And I like to test that very small, small prices, small amounts obviously for, because while we're testing, we don't want to spend too much money here. So let's go ahead and now that we've done that, we want to go ahead and connect to the exchange. So I'm going to connect to the exchange by saying, I should do that. Here, let's say one call equals dot themex. I'm going to use themex exchange. And then the key equals, I have a, don't share config, which I need to import it. Now your key can literally look like this. You'll have to go to the exchange and it will look, let me go ahead and just write that out because I know, I'm on video, so I can't share my, I can't put my keys here, but this is how you put your keys just like this. Like go to the exchange, get your key, get your secret. And then some exchanges have a password as well and you just put like password. So pretty simple to do. If needed, you can fit install any of these pandas, fit install pandas, fit install one call. I think time comes with Python. But this is what you're, this is what it would look like for you. But I'm going to import a file that holds my keys because this file will keep it fixed. So I'm just going to pull my keys and my keys are pretty much set up just like this, but in that file. So if you want to keep them safe, you can do that. Okay. And then we'll do the same thing here for the secret. Perfect. Okay, so now we should be connected, but we want to check the connections. So check connection. And how would we do that? Let's just grab the order book. Actually, let's just grab the order book in general. Order book data and we'll just go through here and do one set by one step and this is going to be great. So let's go ahead and say order book equals one call dot get order book and then we'll pass in the symbol and then we'll pass in true. And then let's just go ahead and print order book. Now we need to make the symbol symbol equals just do ethu is deeper now. And let's see if we're connected. I suppose secret wrong. See, crit. Let's give it another try. Perfect. So we have the order book. This is the data we need. We have the bits. We have the asks. Looks like the pricing is weird here. Let's go ahead here and see if we can upgrade this. So let's go to terminal new terminal. Create install one call dash dash upgrade. Just to make sure it's on the latest version. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. Perfect. I'm only keeping the price a little bit. ... aren't terms we need to get a little bit bit? About 12 to 7-2 is the bit and we started looking at a little bit of a spread... Let's go ahead and see what's going on here. Okay, there's our instructions there. So we need to find the one with the biggest change of the depth. So if I go ahead and see that, it's actually quite easy to see. You see the theorems of 7.4. So one is of 29.65. So we're interested in that. Here, the price for some money is $17. I can't be right. $17 on there, but then on here, oh, this is on FTX. And that whole FTX debacle. So let's go ahead and get a new sole price. Not FTX because FTX just went kaboom. Kaboom. Okay, let's put that up there. And that looks to be the sole loan. It's interesting that the prices are different. Okay, so now that we have orderable data, how are we going to get this? Let's go ahead and set up the purchase, the buy, first, and make sure we can get that set up correctly. Then we'll be able to make a function, orderable data to get bit asked. Okay, so let's make this into a function here. Also, make the buy and sell order function. What else do we need to do? We need to identify the biggest movers. Percentage wise, up and down. And the way we would do that, I'll have to keep thinking about it, but essentially, you can see here easily on FTX that Toulana is up the highest. And I don't like messing around too much down here because the volume gets a little thin. Maybe dot is down the most, so 2.8. None of them are down, but this is up the lease. So let's figure out how to identify those. But first, we want to go ahead and get the bit asked. So how do we get the bit asked? It's actually pass on false here, and this will just give us the JSON. Let's print it out. And then let's figure out how to tap into these. So we would go to book, book, and then ask. So order book, order book, and then we go book. What does it say here? Yeah, book, and then ask. This might take me a couple tries, but... Let's just print that and see if we can get just the asks. And then what is this? Ethereum? So let's go to Ethereum. Okay, here we are. There is no book. So let's just print the OB again. So we come in here, oh, result. Result. And then book. And then maybe asks. We'll see. A lot of his JSON stuff, I'm guessing, and checking. So, you know, kind of proves that you don't need to be a super genius for this. Okay, so here we go. This is all the asks. And then inside the ask, I don't want that one. So maybe I put zero here. Print order book, zero. Okay, so this should be the ask, which is great. We got that. Now we just need to do zero again. And this should print out the actual ask. Which is one, two, three, eight points seven. Close enough. So let's go ahead and say ask equals this. Ask equals that. And then bid equals this. But this, I believe. And then let's say print. And then ask. So let's just put an ask and put in bid. Like that. This is the bid. And this is the ask. It's about right. Perfect. So we have the bid and the ask. Let's go ahead and say, death did bid. Let's just say bid ask. Must I ask bid? And we'll go ahead and move this into the function. And then we'll return. Let's do return ask in the bid. Perfect. So now we have a function that gets the ask in the bid. And we can even return the order book just in case we ever need it. And we'll pass in the symbol equals symbol. So we can pass in the symbol. Let's go ahead and write out what this function does. Function gets the bid and ask price, which is the most real price. And then returns ask bid over. So I understand that. Hope that makes sense. See you. If you have any questions, please let me know. But essentially we're being the order book and finding the bid and ask from that order book. And that's the best way to get the price in my personal opinion. Because it allows us to see. It allows us to see the real bid and ask. Maybe the mark price or there's a delay in the data and so on and so on. So let's jump over here. And we can make the cell order function in a minute. But I want to make sure. What else are we going to do here? So essentially this bot is going to one. Find the biggest movers. And lowest movers. And that's defined by. Percent gain and. Percent loss. The biggest ones. Okay. So that's that. And. So we're going to get that. We're going to need to be able to get the symbols. Try to figure out how are we going to do that though. Because we need to get the symbols. All the symbols here pretty much. And figure that out through there. But then after we do that, we're going to check the SMAs. To check the SMAs to see if we should be longing or shorting. Okay. So that makes sense to me. And then we will say long if. If over let's say the one hour SMA. And short if under the one hour SMA. And when would we enter three when to enter. Well, if long on a pullback. And short under rib. So when the price goes up if we're trying to short it, we wait for a like the price to go up a bit. So for example, it's going up. If we need a short, we're sure here. But if we need the long, we wait for a pullback like this. And long there. Ideally at the bottom, but that's sometimes hard to do. So when to enter. Okay, great. So let's go ahead and get that by and cell function going. So death by cell. Let's just write it out actually. So that's not too hard to do. So now that we have the ask in the bid, we want to grab the asking bid. Let's go ahead and put this into our bot. Let's just call this bot here. And let's get the ask in the bid. So to get the ask bid, we just ask bid and then symbol. Okay. And then the ask equals ask bid zero. And then bid equals ask bid one. Let's call this ask bid. Perfect. So that gets the ask in the bid. And then we want to go ahead and see if we can make a order here. One call dot limit order. And then we'll pass in the symbol. Let's go ahead and then say one call because we want to make a, let's say we were going to do a buy order. So buy side and then the size pass in the size. And then I'll pass in the price. So let's do bid since we're going to buy. Let's just do a bit. Making a buy order. And let's go ahead and just try this out. Let's say bot is running. And let's see if it does it correctly. So the symbol is that. If you as D. And let's see if it goes ahead and does this correctly. So the run bot has a bid in the ask. Okay, perfect. Oh, but the size. Yeah, size is one. Let's go ahead all the way down here. Size is 0.005E. Super interesting that it. It shows us in that way. One contract. Okay, so I just had my things set up. So it filled it perfect. Okay, so we are successfully able to make the buy order. Now let's go ahead and make the sell order. Because we're going to need both of those. And we don't want to use market orders. I mean, you can't and I will in emergencies sell order. I would just pass in the ask here. And I would put in sell side. So let's go ahead and mark this one out. And. Let's go ahead and. Bring this down a bit. Well, I can actually close it. And now we want this to be closed. So we'll hit the sell order. The limit sell. Perfect. So now it should close it. Let's go ahead and make sure there goes fully closed. Perfect active orders. There should be one. Boom. So now we can buy and sell pretty easily. We've got the order look, the ask, the bid. And one of my biggest reasons that I build bots is because I'm a human, right? And we have all this emotion that. That prevents us from buying and selling at the right time. And prevents us from. Getting into some positions that we would really want to. And then we're just not at the computer. And then most importantly, I'm a human and I have to eat. I have to drink coffee. I have to use the restroom. And one, it's not multiple of those. It's him right now. So I got to go. And essentially I'll keep working on this. And if you want to part two, I'll keep building it here on YouTube. Like I said, I build a new trading bot every single day. And then I'll keep building it here on YouTube. Just so I can help you out. Because my thought is if I can help you, well then it's not just me coding for four to six hours per day. It's actually me and you. And anything I figure out, it's going to save that time for you. So I appreciate you. I'll look forward to seeing you inside the discord. You can get to the discord with the link below. I send you an email. So just put your email there. And I'll send you an email to the discord. Other than that, see you in the next show. You'll see the truth about automated trading or algo trading or building a trading bot. Essentially turning your strategy into something that trades for you 24, 7, 365. Now I've been doing this for a few years now. And the truth is a lot of people don't want to share this information. And it makes sense, right? When you're able to automatically trade and build your strategy into a bot that trades up or down. 24, 7, 365. I can see why people don't want to share this. But me, I grew up on the internet, learned everything on the internet. So when I see something like this where nobody's teaching it. And I'm trying to continue to learn and build community. I just teach it. The truth is you don't need a degree. You don't need to have studied computer science in college for four years, eight years, whatever. You don't need to be like a math nerd. We use super simple equations. Basic math, you know, two plus two, five minus three. Maybe a little division here and there. But the truth is you don't have to be some super smart person in order to do this. Me, I'm just a regular dude. You don't need to be great at math. You don't need to be super smart. And you don't need a degree. If you're smart enough to understand these bar charts. I remember when I first looked at these. I was like, what does this even mean? So there was a learning curve in order to figure out how to even read these green bars and red bars. What do these wicks mean? What do the bodies mean? So just like anything else, you can actually learn how to automate a trade. You can learn exactly how to turn your strategy into an automated one that will trade for you 24, 7, 365. So in this video, I'm just going to prove it to you and show you what I do in my day to day and just start coding. So let's go ahead and build out these three things today. I want to help my hand trading actually with a little bot that will run with me. So I've been building out this risk bot and it's super cool because if you think about why have you lost your big trades. Usually because of your emotion. Usually because you think that the market's going to turn. You're in a losing position and you think, hey, if I give it a little bit more time, the market will turn in my direction. Maybe you're hoping it's going up and it keeps going down in this scenario. And you're like, oh, well, maybe it'll turn. And maybe it does turn. But that's not necessarily a good thing because that's against your rules. If you said you're going to get out with a 5% stop loss, well, better get out. Or else, someday, this big green bar is not going to happen. Or in the other situation, you might want to be shorty of this right here for some reason. And then it goes up and you're like, oh, it's going to pull back. And then boom, liquidated. So with automated trading, you can actually automate pieces of your trading as well. So I know a lot of people don't want to just dive into, hey, you know, this is my strategy. Let me put this into a bot because that's fairly hard to do. And that's some truth. Because you might have a strategy, but how are you going to automate the whole entire strategy from entry to exit? Can you actually put that on a piece of paper? Because the truth is, in order to automate your strategy, you have to be able to clearly say, hey, this is when I want to enter. This is when I want to exit. And these are all of the rules. And this is how long I want to hold the position. If it ever goes over this time limit, I want to exit. So what I like to do sometimes is maybe do a little hand trading, but that hand trading has a bot. An automated strategy running with me. So for example, I know the struggle sometimes. It's like, okay, well, I can't really comprehend why I need to get into a position right here. I can't really get that on paper in order to build a bot. So, but in my mind, I know I need to get into a position right here. Well, if that's the case, at the minimum, if you're going to hand trade, at least have a bot that is managing your risk. So if you've seen the other videos on this channel, I've been building out this bot for a while now. And these are just three more points that I want to add to it. So it's going to allow me to max trade three times per day, meaning if I get two wins in a day, that's two for three. And that's going to be magical over the long run. And then it's going to ask me questions like, hey, are you in a gambler's mindset right now? Hey, did you get enough sleep last night? How many hours of sleep did you get? Hey, are you on tilt right now? And what's going to happen is going to log the trades, and it's going to log the questions and answers. So after like 100 trades, I'll have this big old log, maybe an Excel file, of exactly, hey, what state of mind was I in? And then thirdly, we're going to, it's not going to allow me to enter trades 15 minutes after a close. And the reason for this is because I've seen in my personal hand trading, sometimes I will over trade. So we'll have two risk controls for that, you know, number three trades per day. But on top of that, it won't let me enter a position for another 15 minutes. So for example, if I got hit right here and I exited, my bot took me out because I was down sales shortiness, down 5%, or whatever my risk control is, well, naturally, you have the tendency to want to be right. So you might want to short again, but then you just lose again. But if you have a bot running with you, well, what's going to happen? Well, it's going to make you sit on the sidelines for 15 minutes, and you're going to see this big green bar, and that might change your thoughts, right? So it gives you a little time to chill and just kind of recoup. So let's go ahead and just start building because I've got a lot to do today, and you know, I'm here to actually to code every single day. And I just decide to, hey, do a little bit of this on the internet as well on YouTube. So I'm not just helping myself, but hey, maybe I can help you learn something and see that it's really not that hard to code these plots. So let's do the first thing first. Let's do max trades. Let's say, death max trades. Max daily trades. And let's make that a function. Let's say this function is going to only allow max of x trades per day. Starting with three. Well, I'll just put x for now, and then I'll say max trades here. Let's go ahead and put it up here. Max daily trades equals three. And then I'm just going to put down here. I'm going to say max equals max equals max daily trades. So easy for me to set up up here in the day time. This is how many trades this is. How many trades per day I can take. Perfect. So now I know max daily trades is three. And in order to connect, you have to connect through CCXT and then just write in all this stuff. And I use a don't share config for my API key and a secret. So I don't have to share those here on YouTube, but you could actually just put them in. Instead of that, you could just put them in like this, your API key and secret. Some things I'll show you the imports I made really quickly. Just in case you didn't see them, import CCXT, math, pandas, this pd, don't share config, time, date time warnings. To filter out this one warning, I keep getting and so on and so on. Let's go ahead and figure this out. Let's do themix.fetch. I think there's like a fetch closed orders. Perfect. And let's call these close equals that. And then let's go ahead and say print close. And that should get me all the closed orders. And then what I want to do is actually instead of that, I want to go ahead and put this into, hmm, which we do here. Let's put this into a closed DF. So we'll make it a data frame. So pd.dataframe.fromdictionary. And we'll pass in the close. So now it's going to be that. And then all I really want to do here is get my closed DF reset it. And I want to reset it to close DF. But I want to make just a couple of the columns. And I want to do filled. And then last trade timestamp, believe it. And then I should be able to print the closed DF. And this will just give me my last trades. And in a DF format. So it's just give me the time and when it's filled. So let's go ahead and try this out and see if it works. Close this for now. And let's go ahead and hit play. Okay, it requires a symbol. So what we'll do is we'll pass in the symbol. Now I'm trying to think we might need to work on this a bit. Okay, perfect. So it looks like that's all working. We might need to think a little bit here though. How so this this will work for one symbol. But how to work for all symbols. We just do a loop of that. But we'll get back to that later. I usually just trade one symbol. So. So we get back to that later. But for now we'll just have it work for the one symbol I usually trade. And my one worry is that knowing that this is going to work for one symbol. It's going to be easy if I do get into like a gambler's mentality or on tilt. Well, it's going to be super easy for me to be like, oh, I can just jump into the next symbol and my bot won't close me out. But we won't let that happen. Okay, so now we want to go ahead and get the time of the computer. So let's go ahead and say comp time equals integer of time. And from there we can say now equals date time. Now. And then the string of the time would be date time. Now and then strf time. And then we would just set it as the percent month. Percent day, percent year space. Percent hour. Percent minute. Percent second. Okay. So now we have the data frame that gives us all our last closes and the filled amount. So let's go ahead and think here. What should we do? And I apologize. Sometimes I have to pause and think because this is my day to day. I'm not just here making a YouTube video. I'm literally working with you. So if you do appreciate that, you know, let me know below. And if you have any questions, I'm also here for you. So I'm always going to be here for you no matter what. Let's go ahead and make a last closed time deal. And say closed here. Close. Close. Close. And we'll say close at the closed. Close. D. At filled. So if the filled is over zero. So it filled is more than zero because that means that the position was actually taken. And it wasn't like a fake position like a canceled order or something like that. Or a rejected order. So that means it actually happened. And then we'll say let's make a list. Last. Close. List equals last. Close time. D. To list. Like that. And then let's print. Last. Close. List. Okay. I'm going to get rid of this print because it's not needed anymore. I didn't run it. Max daily trades. Okay. So that's not supported between a string and an integer. Hmm. Oh, I see. I just have the air here. Let's call the boom there. And then here, I think we just do that. Let's try that again. All right. There we go. So these are my last closed times. So now I want to say in the last 12 hours. No more than max trades. Now I know that's not like three per day, but it kind of is, right? Because we got to sleep. So how would we do this? So in the last 12 hours, what is the last 12 hours? First off, let's get 12 hours. Hmm. It's like we have a breakout here on BTC. I get a little distracted by the charge sometimes. That's okay. See what's going on with ES1? Pumping, but it's still late. You can see here, BTC. There we go. Nice breakout. Let's see how that evolves. Anyways, in the last 12 hours, no more than max trades. So let's get 12 hours. So 12 times 60 is minutes times 60 again equals 12 hours equals that. It's print 12 hours. 12 hours in seconds. So that's 12 hours in seconds. So what we're going to need to do is let's go ahead and print that out here and see what happens. 4200. So we actually need to get the exchange time. Hmm. Because this is 12 hours into minutes into seconds. So that's that. And then let's get the exchange time. So to get the exchange time. Well, the comp time right now, we don't need the exchange time actually. We just take the comp time, which we have minus 12 hours in seconds and say, print 12 hours in seconds like this. No. Let's think about this for a second. So what we're trying to get here is the last 12 hours out of here. We want to make sure that none of these fall in the last 12 hours. And let's think about this for a second. We actually make sure this needs to go backwards. So 1, 2, 3. So negative 1, negative 2, and negative 3. So let's get that. Let's get all the way up to negative 3. The list. Well, let's get negative 4 just in case. To get the last four closes. So to get the last four closes, we do that. So we'll say last four, last four closes equals last closeless. So minus 4 on. And then let's print last four closes. Okay, so that's right. So that's the last four closes. And for the last four closes, we need to make sure that none of them are less than comp time minus 12 hours. So time minus 12 hours equals equals minus 12 hours equals that. So now we need to make sure that none of these are bigger than that. So let's go ahead and say print time minus last 12 hours. 16. Okay, I think that's right. Now we want to say, hey, let's grab this position right here. Since that's the fourth back, last four closes, last four closes at the zero position is, I think we need to just do three. Just because I, I just heard my brain now, three closes back equals that. So this would be this number or this number. And if this number divided by 1,000 because it's in like a weird number, let's go ahead and print that. And then we can compare those two. So essentially I'm getting the three closes back. So max three times per day is 12 hours. And if this is bigger than that, okay, at least there, matching up, 1, 6, so 8, 3. So as long as this is bigger than this, we're good to go. So if time minus 12 is bigger, wait, is that right? Let me think about this. Let's say it's 9 p.m. right now. And then 12 hours ago, it would be 9 a.m. 9 a.m. Let's check out what's going on over here real quick. So let's say it's 12. So 9 a.m. is latest. The time minus 12 hours is bigger than three closes back. Then we should be good to go, right? So if time minus 12 hours, so now minus 12 hours is 9 a.m. And the latest trade or last trade was 7 a.m. Then we're good to go. Yeah, that's right. So trade because max daily equals false. I know that's ugly, but I like to be able to read it. Else, it's true. So perfect. That's what we're going to do. And then let's just go ahead and say, let's print that. Let's print which one it is. Print that 12. That means I can trade. And what does that mean? That means we need to return. Turn that. Let's get rid of these prints. And I think this is all correct. So it might be good to go here. And if it's true, I want to call the kill switch, which I don't have, implemented in this, but I've gone over the kill switch so many times. And I'm going to say symbol. And I can go over this. There's another video that goes over my kill switch, but I'm just going to throw this into my main risk file. And essentially, this is going to say, let's go ahead and print some feedback. We shouldn't be trading because we already... I'm going to say kill switch. No trading already hit max per day. Starting kill switch. Perfect. And then here, print. We are good to go. Haven't hit max trades per day. Perfect. So now... I'm going to mark this out for now just so it continues to run. But essentially, I'm going to throw this into my bot now. And my bot is essentially going to make sure that I don't trade more than three times per day. Which is quite awesome. And it's going to automatically do the kill switch. So to do this now, let's see what else we wanted to build to this. Does not allow trading 15 minutes after the close. After last close. Okay. I think we can do that one too. But this is great. I'm really excited for this actually. We just had a breakout over here. So there's some volatility today. The market's about to open in an hour. Should be some nice volatility. If I'm looking at the ES1, the QQQ's down. ES1 is down. The dollar is up. Should be some good volatility today. We've had some crazy events and crypto those last weekend. I'm excited to put this into my bot now. And you can see, you know, this is the truth. I'm not like a super smart guy. You can see my math is kind of wack. I'm just a trader that knew I could automate some things. And I like to make these easy videos for hand traders because I know everybody's not an algorithmic trader. And sometimes you want to get some hand trades in. So if you're going to do that, it's best to use a bot to at least control your risk. This bot right here that we built today essentially makes it so we don't trade more than three times per day. Which is awesome. Or however many times you want. You just say max daily trades up here. And I put it as three. And this should actually be this. Nice. We got to cut that. Minus max. So max daily trades. Perfect. Alright, so I mean, if you want another part, if you want me to handle these next two parts on video, I'll do that. But for now, I'm going to start coding them up on my own because I think this video has gone pretty long. Feel free to join the Discord. There's a link below just throw in your email and I'll send you an invite to the Discord. And other than that, I'll see you in the next one. If you do what I tell you in this video, exactly this. You will never trade the same again. Now I've been trading for close to a decade now. And once I implemented this one thing, my trading has been so, so much better. And it comes down to a simple saying there is, if you can't measure it, you can't grow. If you can't measure it, you cannot improve. So what does that mean? It means you need to measure every single trade. But who in their right mind is actually going to take notes of every trade they make? And who in their right mind is actually going to exit when they say they're going to exit? The thing is we're humans. We have emotions. Sometimes when you see a bar like this, well, maybe you want to go long and then guess what happens. Boom. Liquidated. When you see a red bar down like this, and you want to go short. Hey, maybe you'll take a quick win, but boom. It turns around on you. So there's a couple of things I want to make sure to emphasize in this video. Number one, journaling your trades and making sure that you're not in like a gambler's mindset. Or you're not until. Will help increase your trading. So much more than any strategy. Or any secret there is out there. But how do you do it? Well, you have to have something to help you automate it. So I'm an elbow trader. I tried to trade 100% algorithmically. But I know a lot of people out here, including myself, sometimes catch opportunities that can't really be written into a bot. Well, they can be. But at that moment, maybe today, there's a unique opportunity. Maybe because some news or something that isn't built into one of my bots already. Well, how do I trade that? Well, I have traded by hand. And while I am an elbow trader and I don't really like trading by hand because emotions do get in the way, there's a way to change your trading forever. And that's not even by fully automatically automating your trading. It's simply by automating parts of it. So one part of the trading that you can automate is, hey, make sure before you enter a trade, you tell your bot why you're entering that trade. So for example, before you enter a trade, you want to buy, well, in order to enter that trade, the only way your bot's going to enter that trade is if you tell it exactly why you want to enter that trade. And what's going to happen? You're going to say, for example, if you're on this green bar right here, you're going to say, hey, I want to enter this trade because there's a huge green bar. Well, while you're typing that, you'll probably realize, oh, that's a cardinal sin right there. I don't want to enter on a green bar and maybe you won't enter that trade. And then the second question will be like, are you in a gambler's mindset right now? Are you on tilt? Well, if you are, maybe you shouldn't enter that trade. Right? And the thing is, is what's going to happen after a hundred or a 200 trades? Well, this bot is going to keep track of everything for you. So it's going to show you, hey, you won this trade and you did get your eight hours of sleep. You weren't in a gambler's mindset. But you lost this trade and you were chasing a red bar and you're trying to short a red bar or you didn't get eight hours of sleep last night and so on and so on. So I'm going to build this bot out here today with you. You don't have to be super smart. You don't have to have a degree. None of that stuff. And I actually need this because when I do have to get in there and hand trade, I have to make sure that my emotions are in check because that's the number one thing that kills us. It's emotions. You want to long, you want to buy when the bars are going up and short when the bars are going down. So I have a bunch of questions that I want to ask myself before my bot even enters a trade. So let's just go ahead and code this out. And like I said, you know, I'm a normal guy. I just a trader like yourself that knew I could pull more alpha out of the market if I could automate my trade. Now for me, I algorithmic trade. Meaning I try to enter all my trades with an algorithm. But like I said, you know, there are times that you want to hand trade. There's news events that happen like last weekend. There's a lot of news events that happen that I was able to get some good trades in. But I had to do them by hand. And in order to make yourself feel safe and to make sure your results, you have longevity in this game, you have to control your risk. So let's go ahead and build this bot out. And I'll make sure to put this bot in the discord or in the bootcamp or somewhere around. But let's go ahead and talk about the things we just built this in the last video. Max three trades per day. So even if you're not going to go fully automated traded, well, you could have your bot say, hey, I'm going to get you out of a trade if you've already had your max trades per day. Now yours might be higher or lower than this. I feel like my place when I'm hand trading is three traded to max because it does take a lot of time and effort to trade. You're looking at these charts and I would just rather be coated. So the second thing we want to build here is we want to ask questions and log the trades. So let's go ahead and just build that. You can see all the things I imported. I'm using Python, CCXT, math, Pantasm, PV. These are a bunch of inputs that I already laid out here that you can just pause the video at any time. To connect to the exchange, you just go ahead and pull in your don't share config. That hides my keys. But you could have it just like this as well where you just put your keys in here like this. And your secret there. You get the keys in the secret from the exchange. I'm using Pmex for today. And what I want to go ahead and do is build out a function that let's say questions. Let's say enter questions. Because these questions are going to make me slow down and really think through every trade that I enter. And the name of the game is staying alive. And in my opinion as a hand trader, it's just staying alive until that one big trade comes along. Other than that, you're just trying to take small wins, small losses. So this will ask before entering a trade, this will ask a few questions. So one, let's say what was, did you sleep eight hours? Two, are you on tilt slash gamblers slash in a gamblers mindset? See what else is important. I feel like those two things are very important. Are you longing a green bar or shorting a red bar? Those are two other great questions, right? Because these questions are going to be logged forever. And then I'll be able to see, hey, well in the past one year, I won all of the trades, I won 70% of the trades where did I sleep eight hours? I did. I wasn't in a gamblers mindset and I wasn't longing a green bar or shorting a red bar. Now I'm going to build this out and I'll probably add more questions to it later. But for now, I think those are three really great questions. And I'm pretty sure I actually had some more. Let me go ahead and check my notes here because these questions are really going to make sure that I'm at least cognizant of my actions. Right? So let's go ahead and just start with that. And what we'll do is we'll go ahead and just build this out. So let's go ahead and say start. Say start equals input. Would you like, sorry, I need to make this a string, would you like to buy and we'll put that as a B. So I enter B to buy. Sell and I'll enter S for sell or kill meaning this will hit our kill switch. So this buy is going to ask me these questions and then it's going to say hey do you want to buy sell, kill or just risk control. And I'll say to control risk, you push anything. So kill is K that will give me out of any positions I have sell will be to short buy will be to buy. And then it's going to do everything for me. So this is so great, right? Because even if you're hand trading, you can automate pieces of it. And I don't know if I mentioned this but I literally need to build this today. That's why I just decided to build some things here on YouTube because I know nobody else is going to share this information. Print going to buy. And I already have a size up here. So at the top I've already said hey what size I want leverage. Let's bring that way now. Target let's put that at 8%. Let's put this at 3.7%. Size. Let's just put 10 for now. And lock out loss in dollar terms. That can be whatever but you can see I have in this bot I already have like hey if I hit a max drawdown, a 5,000 will be out for the day. And I have all these videos across my YouTube or in the discord. You can get to the discord there should be a link below. You get all the code there as well. Just put in your email address and I'll invite you to the discord. But the you can see we just built this max daily trades. So I'll close that for now. But what I wanted to show you up here is the symbol the size leverage. Because I'm going to put it into this because I'm going to essentially say when I start the bot I'm going to say do I want to buy, sell, kill or just control risk. And going to buy size whatever the sizes of symbol with leverage. Left. And then we want to go ahead and say we want to set the leverage. The max dot set leverage. And say leverage. And then we want to pass in the symbol. And then we want to say cancel all orders just in case there's some open orders there. And then we want to create the bi order. The max dot create limit by order. And then we'll say symbol. We'll say size. We'll bring in the ask in the bid which I need to create. And I'll do that here in just one second. And then we want to bring in the params equals params. And that will create the by order. And then I'm going to say time dot sleep. Three seconds. Okay, perfect. So we need to go ahead and make this ask bid function here. It's not too hard to do. Just put it up here. Death ask bid. And from there we'll go ahead and just write that out. So this is going to get the ask in the bid price. So it'd be death ask bid. We want to pass in the symbol. Sorry, symbol equals symbol. And then we want to say order book equals themix dot fetch. Fetch order book. And then symbol. And then we want to get the bid equals ob. And that equals the asks. At the zero position zero position. And then the ask equals ob. Asks sorry other one should be bid. And then we want to return. The ask the bid in the ob. So I'll change this to bits. Perfect. So now we have the ask bid function. Fetch is the order book. Grab the bid. Grab the ask. And then it returns those three things. So let's go ahead and close that. And then you can see the ask bid. Now works here. Now I don't have the params in here. So I actually have to import params as well. So let's just put those params up here. Equals time in force. Now what does this do? This makes it so it's only a post only order. Meaning it will never fill my order as a market order. Which I love. Because it saves you a lot of money when you're trading a lot. Okay perfect. So if b equals that, then we make the buy order. So if I input b, it makes the buy order. And if I import, if I input s, it should make the sell order. So let's just do this same thing here. So I'm going to say if, if, or LF, sorry, LF start equals s, s, then paste all that in. I'm going to say sell size, leverage, set, then we want to change this to sell. Then we want to ask bid zero. Because then put it on the ask instead of the bid. And then time. Now if I want to kill the position, LF start equals equals k. Then I want to kill the position. So we say kill switch. Do I have a kill switch in here? I don't, but I do have it in my other one. And we've gone over this a bunch on my channel. If you need to kill switch, just let me know in the discord. Starting, I'll put this above actually. I'm not going to build out the kill switch on this video because I've already built it somewhere else. Like I said, you can just get into this core. Starting kill switch. And I'm just going to plop this into one of my, my risk bot later. So I'm just going to mark that out for now. And then try to remember. And then else. Print. Just controlling risk. So since this is going to be run from my risk bot, it's automatically going to control the risk aka. It's going to look at the PNL. Make sure if we hit our target, then we'll exit. If we hit our max loss, we'll also exit. So that's just going to push it into that. And from there, what I want to do is. From here, I want to go ahead and say. Where do we want to put these questions? So let's go ahead and say questions, dear. Questions. Questions. And then down here. I want to say questions, dear. To CSV. And we'll just say question entry questions. Entry questions dot CSV. And say index equals false. And just like that, we should have, okay, so it should create the questions, dear. Just like that. So sorry, I think sometimes, but this is what I do on the daily. So you do appreciate me just sharing everything I'm literally building. To tap that, tap that thumbs up button. Always helps me. Questions, yes. So we're going to say that. And it's going to create a new data front. And then once we create that new data front, we should actually make a temporary, too. And say, Tim. And then here. We'll go ahead and put the questions. The F is by temp. Eight hours equals. Input. Did you sleep eight hours? And let's do that here as well. So we'll just do that for the opening and closing. So if the buyer or sell, did you sleep eight hours? Now, I kind of want to test this before going too far. Looks like the market just opened. So I'm kind of curious what's going on here. QQQ. Looks like a little bit of a pullback. Google, coin, Apple is the one that really moves things. Okay, interesting. Anyway, so what we're going to do here is we create the DIA. And we create a temporary DIA. And then we're going to append. So we want to do some appendings. Now let me think about how to do this. Let's say this. Scratch my head and that's something hurt. Another good sign. Okay, so. Let's say questions. DF questions. DF equals. Questions. DIA dot append. Questions. DIA temporary. And then we make it a CSV. And that will go there. And then I think what we want to do is later. We want to have a. The DF go ahead and read in this. You know what I'm saying? So. I'm going to do this questions. DF. So we'll run this on the first one. DF equals. Questions. DF equals PD dot. Re. CSV. And then whatever we named it as down here, entry questions. Like this. Like that. And for now, we'll mark it out because we haven't even created it yet. But let's go ahead and see if this works. I would like to date in the time in there as well. But I think we'll get to that in a second. So let's go ahead and say, let's run enter questions. And I'm not actually going to create the orders right now because. No need. So let's mark those out for now. Enter questions and let's run it and see what happens. Would you like to buy? Sell. Kill or just. So I'm going to click buy. Did you sleep eight hours? Yes. Going to buy with ten. Going to buy ten of each with ten eggs. Okay, perfect. Now let's see if it made the file. Huh. I don't see the file. Oh, because it's down here. Okay, okay. So let's say copy relative path. And let's put it in here. A lot of room by the bank. X. Paste it in there. Boom boom. Come up here and put it in there. And let's run this again. I do have a couple of things I want to change here. I want to make this look a little prettier. There we go. Now let's see what happens. I kind of want to put why for yes. Make it a little better for formatting reasons. Like I'm thinking like in the future, what I'm going to do is add some machine learning to this. I'm going to need a lot of trades. But I'm going to then have all of these questions, right? And if I can get them in yes or no answers, then if I get like a thousand trades, probably even more trades than that, then I'll have all of this information. Like eight hours, did I sleep eight hours? What was I on till? Was I on gamblers of mentality? And any other questions I want to add? And now I'll have this huge file of all of these questions and answers. And then it will be able to throw it through the ML. And it will be able to tell me like what types of days I have. And that will give me a little bit of edge. And then from there, obviously, we can see what works well. And if I ask the right questions over time, then we can just have this trade for itself as well. So a lot of people ask me, how do I come up with new strategies? Sometimes I'll just hand trade. And I'll just see like, okay, what's good, what's bad? And I've noticed that when I do hand trade, if I did get a good sleep, I'm not going to trade as well. So that's why it has this weird question. Some people are going to be like, oh, I don't need that sleep. Well, that's cool, but I do. Did I sleep? Yes. So, okay, again, the cell. And then it should have logged in. Entry questions. Eight hours. So I didn't log it. I just did it incorrectly. So let's go back to the risk helper. Let's say, let's put this. Just put this as, eag. Hour. And then that equals. Oh, actually, you know what? I think I can do this without that. I think I just need to put another one of these. I don't know about that, to be honest, but we'll see. A lot of guests in check in, but that's what we do. So I want to buy. Did I sleep? I did sleep, maybe. That's my matter of fact, I slept way more than I did. I feel great. Feel great. Okay, that didn't work either. Okay, so I'm going to go back to this. Oh. So let's take this out and say eight hours. And then let's put this in here. Like that. Let's move that around. Say eight hours. Like that. And see if that works. You probably missing something, but that's all right. With me, because this is how we do it. So. Let's see if it went ahead and. Okay, perfect. So yes, eight hours. Perfect. Okay, now here, you know how we made the data for him? We're actually going to now make it. We're just going to read it in and. Let's go ahead and put this question here as well. So it's on the buy and the stuff. And. Let's also put this. Eight hours by cell. Equals start. Like that. So it'll tell me if the buyer is up. Just like that. The S. What else do we need? We need the time. I want the date time in there. So let's get that going. So to get the date time, we'll do this. We'll say now equals date date time. Now. And then we'll format it. Format it into sdrf time. And then we'll say percentage. percentage M percentage D percentage Y. And then. And we'll say hours. And then I'm just going to do minutes. I don't need seconds. So date time string. So let's go ahead and say questions. Yeah. Equals. Dang, I love this stuff. It's just like sometimes when you're thinking about building something, it's going to be so hard. But then you just take it one block at a time. And it's just not that hard. So like if you're scared of starting. Just start. All this DT. Okay, so now this should get the date time, the string. What other questions do we want here? Let's go ahead and test this. Make sure it works. Enter questions. I don't think it's going to work because I did this. I'm going to reset the. Do this again. Do that later once all the questions are there. Okay, and let's run it. So I should have the date the by itself. On the by. I did. Okay, gonna buy. Now let's look at the entry questions. So 1114, 946, bought. Yes. Perfect. This is looking great. But I want some more information in there. And the information I want is. Symbol. So let's say symbol. Sim. We'll just pass in the symbol here. Okay. And then I also want the size. And put in the size there. And I want the leverage. Because all of this information is going to. I'm going to be able to. You see what I'm saying? Like I'm logging all of this information. And then I'm adding in some personal things. Like how do I feel? Did I sleep well in all that good stuff? The size, the leverage. And I'm just building this database of. All this information. And later I'm going to be able to track it back and say, Oh, well, this happened that day. Well, what was the symbol? What was the size? What was the leverage? That was I buying or was I selling? Does sleep eight hours or that not? So let's keep it going. And let's ask the other questions. Let's go ahead and just copy paste that. Eight hours. What is the next question I wanted to ask? I don't remember to be honest. I know it's something with tilt. Did I write it up here, maybe? No, where did I write that? I feel like I wrote it somewhere. Anyways, I know the questions. Tilt. So tilt, if you're not familiar, is like, I look at it as like you're uncontrollable. You're like gambling pretty much. Or in a gambler's mindset, yes or no. And then I'll say tilt is about here. We'll say tilt. And then I want to ask one more question. And that question is going to be. Am I longing? Langing a green bar or shorting a red bar? Well, what I call this long, L green, short red, stupid name, but whatever. Which is called red green. Okay, I think this is great. This is going to log all of the questions I need to log. And the most important part is it's making me think like, do I actually want to enter this trade? Because sometimes you'll just be mashing the buttons. It's not a good way to trade. You don't want to just mash your way into a trade. So I think this is pretty good now. Let's go ahead and just duplicate it over to the buy. Did I sleep eight hours? Buy cell? Okay, I think this might be looking good now. Let's go ahead and run it. And let's have it just question me because I need to be questioned. If I'm going to hand trade, I would like to be questioned. So be and I know this will slow down the entry, but I don't really care. Like if I'm going to hand trade, I'm not scouting. I'm going to have a second for my hand trade is going to be. Am I until or in a gambler's mindset? No. Am I long in a green bar or short in a red bar? That's a good question. No. Because I went long. Okay, I'm going to buy. And then I could say, I could make this even better and I can question myself. Like are you sure, bro? So I could say like if green. Yeah, maybe I'll do that in the future. Let me know if you want me to do that. So what I'm thinking is, hey, I could say like if these answers don't correlate, like for example, if I say yes to these ones or no to this one, then it could like pause for a second or something and be like, you sure you want to enter this trade? This is against your rules. Or I could have it say just like, no, you're not entering this trade. It just kills the process. I kind of like that. What if I did that right now? So if... Let's do that. I like that a lot, actually. Like I said, sorry, I free ball some of this. Like I'm literally building this right now and I need it for my hands rating. Just to make sure when I do hand trade, I'm safe as can be. Because I have a thesis that we are actually not bad traders. You know, if you put in your time and you understand how to trade, you're not a bad trader. It's just sometimes your emotions will get that. You get the best of you. So I can you do a break? Let's see here. Break can only be used within a... What about continue? How do you break out of this? I'm just going to do this. If... Tilt... ...equals... Yes. Or... ...L... ...green red S... ...equals... ...yes. Or... ...eight hours... ...eight hours equals no. Print... ...na... ...brow... ...this isn't... ...is not an ideal trade. But I'm trying to think... ...oh... Oh, that's all I do. Perfect, perfect. I was going to do that way, but if Tilt equals no... ...is... ...equals no... ...and this equals yes, then we enter the trade. And then we put this here as well. Because this will just need the questions that I ask. And my bot won't enter unless these questions are correlated with these. So if Tilt equals that, just make sure these are all wrapped up correctly. Okay. And then else... ...print... ...not a good time to trade... ...so not. Doing anything... ...except... ...risk control. Because I'll put this into my risk bot. So it'll then just fall down to the end and it will not... ...do anything. I love this. I'm so excited. I'm about to go hand trade after this. Even though I promote not hand trade in, I just want to have something for when it's needed. And I know that sounds like a gambler right there in itself. But for example, if I don't have an algo to capture the certain situation, like a news event or something like that... ...and I want to get it in trade, well, if I'm going to do that, I'll make sure it's as safe as possible. Alright, so let's do the same thing here. So let's bring this down here. Let's bring this over. And then let's copy this little same here. And then we'll test it out. Not a good time to trade. Okay, this is a beast entry now. Because it's not going to let me. That's what I like. It was cool before because it would suggest it would make me think those questions through. That was cool, but I think this is even cooler because now I'm just not going to do it. So it's really going to end the data frame or it should be. We'll do that next time. Let's run it twice. This is awesome. I love this. So we're going to buy. Did I sleep eight hours? Yes. Am I in a gambler's mindset? No. Am I longing a green bar or short in a red bar? No. Okay, it's going to buy. Perfect. Let's delete this. Not delete it, but with unmarked. Let's go ahead and see what happened to that entry questions. Okay, so 11, 14 at this time. ETHUSD by 10. Leverage 10. By y equals. Yes, eight hours. Till no. Green. No. Okay. Perfect. So now let's try it again. But I'm going to answer the questions wrong. So like, oh, I just got built. I just got killed on a trade. I'm trying to get back in. I'm going to sell it. I did sleep. But I am in a gambler's mindset. So I'm going to play it. Yes. And then am I shorting? No. Oh, but it's still worked. Okay. So that did not. I'm going to sell it. So I did add. Till does no. Oh, sorry, sorry. This should be ends. So all of these have to be. And true. Okay, let's try that again. So I want to sell. I get my eight hours. Yes. Yes. And then no. Not a good time to trade. So not doing anything. Perfect. Now let's see what happens over here. To the entry questions. I think I want to add another. Not question, but another. Another input. Do action equals. Enter. Did not. It would be the other action. Or no entry. Actions. No entry. Perfect. That seems good to me. I'm going to either enter or not. And we'll go out and say enter. Or here. No. Just like that. Just make sure it's the same. Okay. Let's run this one more time and see how this does. So I want to buy. Does sleep eight hours? Yes. Am I in a gambler's mind? Yes. No. Not a good time to trade. Just controlling risk. Okay. No entry. Perfect. Now let's go back one more time and run it one more time because I think this is going to be helpful. Let's say I want to sell. Does sleep eight hours? Yes. And then am I in a gambler's mind? Am I in a gambler's mind? No. Okay. It's going to sell. Perfect. And then if I look at my entry questions, it says enter. Perfect. All right. This is awesome. I can't wait to use it. I hope you enjoyed this. This is my day to day. I'll probably go ahead and try to play around with it a little more. Maybe answer some more questions or ask some more questions. I'm essentially trying to build this up to a database so I can see where I entered, I didn't enter and which ones became profitable and which ones didn't. So if you have any questions, I'm here for you. Ask me in the question section below or you can ask me in discord. How do you get access to discord for the link below? Just put in your email and I'll send you access to discord in like an hour or so. So that's it. If you want me to go over this and show you the machine learning parts that I'm going to add into this or any next questions and other things I'm going to do, just let me know. And I'm here for you. I hope you a wonderful day and I'll see you next time. If I had to trade from work, this is exactly what I would do. Now I know a lot of us have jobs. We have to be working eight hours a day. We might have a business we're working on. But we know exposure to the market is profitable if done right. Now one thing most people don't do correctly is they buy off emotions or sell based off emotions. And my whole thesis is we are not naturally bad traders but the one thing that keeps us bad is our emotions. We know we're supposed to buy when it dips and sell when it rips. And we know we're supposed to short on big green bars and long when it dips way down here. But the problem is is we have emotions and we might see this green bar right here and want to long it. And then boom, red bar. So naturally we know when to enter an exit. But we can't really do that because oh I got to go to work. I got to go work on my business. Oh I got to go to school. Oh I got to do this. I got to do that. We're humans. We have things to do. It's not your fault. We all have things to do. We have to eat, we have to use the restroom and so on and so on. So this is exactly what I would do if I had a full-time job and I needed to trade. Matter of fact I run multiple businesses so I do have a full-time job. Now I might not be going into the office but I can't be sitting here all day looking at this chart and deciding when to get in and out. So this is exactly what I would do. I would simply if I wanted to go long if I wanted to buy something I would have my bot look at the best time to buy. And I would have that bot put in orders all around the best time to buy. Now when is the best time to buy? I don't know. But my bot and past research with back testing has shown me that it's way better to buy around the VWAP which is the volume weighted average price. Meaning the average price across where all the volume is. The average price. It's way better. It's a way better idea if you're going to buy. Buy there opposed to buying up here. See that green bar? This is where human will enter. Boom. Right. Now if you look at this gray line here, this is the VWAP. You can see that it's made multiple wicks through the VWAP if we could a bot sold. Bot sold. And so on and so on. So I want to show you how to do that with code. Build a little bot today. Don't worry about it if you don't know how to code. You don't need this super genius. I did not go to school for this. I don't have a degree in coding. I just was a trader that knew hey if I could remove my emotions, I would be much much better trader. So I'm going to build a bot today that looks at the VWAP and then puts the buy or sell orders around the VWAP. So let's go ahead and just do that. As I mentioned multiple times, I'm now a trader and I literally need to do this today. So I'm just going to do it on you. So let's go ahead and try to place here we can make a little function. We've been building all types of functions throughout this channel and different bots. Every single day I build a new bot or a new function. Just having my first sip of morning coffee which is phenomenal. So let's go ahead and say death. This is a billionaire function and this function is going to allow us to VWAP. Let's call it elegant entry. Because this is going to be an elegant entry. Because when I want to go long or if I want to go short, it's going to look at the right time to do that. When I want to take a position, look at the VWAP and put orders around there. Take the total size and divide it by three. To enter. We'll do that. Divide it by three to enter. How do we get the VWAP? Actually super simple. Let's go ahead here. Simply. First you're going to have to do your imports. Import CCXT math. Go ahead and screenshot this real quick. If you need me to slow down. Import all these things. And then I have my size, my leverage and so on and so on. And then we need to connect to the exchange. So this is how you connect to the exchange. Now you have everything you need. Go ahead and rewind if needed. But elegant entries. I want to go ahead and say now that I'm connected to the exchange, I want to say themix.fetch.tiger. Then I'm going to say symbol. And let's go ahead and say symbol. Let's pass in the symbol here. The symbol is symbol. We definitely want to make these posts only orders. So let's go ahead and do that. Let's say. Let's actually do that here at the top. Maybe we've already put it there. Yeah, we do. We have params post only. So only we'll enter the order if it's a limit order, which is great. Let's go ahead and see what this prints out. Let's say. Tigger info equal. Say print. Tigger info. And let's make sure we have the right symbol here. ETH is D is what I'm going to do for this. Print. Take a symbol. And then let's say. Aligate. Entry. Run this. Perfect. So you can see the symbol. Looky, looky, looky. V-walk. V-V-S-D. Just reading through this a bit. So let's make the ask is this. The V-walk is, it can't be that. It says $6.032. So that obviously can't be the V-walk. But that's okay because I have another waiting to view up. So let's just go get the view up. V-walk equals. Let's just type in pandas. Pandas TA V-walk. Super simple. How to add a V-walk to pandas TA. Oh, you know what? I actually have a V-walk somewhere. In my nice folks. See if I have my nice folks in here. I'm going to be in August maybe. Let's check out my folks. I guess pretty sure V-walk is in here. I pause it. I do this live. So this is a live coding session. I was not there. Let's go ahead and close this up. I was excited because it looked for a second. I was like the V-walk was going to be shown here. But it looks like it's just wrong. You can see it says V-walk. Maybe it's some sort of different V-walk. That's no worries though because we can easily create the V-walk. Let's go to Pandas TA. Documentation. Let's see if we can find the V-walk. So it looks like it's just TA. V-walk. I could just want to have the V-walk somewhere. I'm going to look for it because that would be nice to not have to rewrite it. Let's go ahead and see what's going on here. Looks like it's dumping a bit. Now a human would have entered. I don't want to think that I'm just taking part in human. Let's go ahead and see what the SMA is looking like. Maybe it did find the V-walk. Support resistance. I'm just going to grab all this information at least. I'm going to import nice folks. Let's go ahead and copy this over. Let's go here. Let's see nice folks. Let's go ahead and say risk-helper. It's import nice folks. Import nice folks. Nice folks will probably not work correctly because my connection is not right. XP. It seems to be J. It seems to be J. This needs to be don't share it can be. This needs to be... Look at that color. Don't share it can be. There we go. Now that should be connected. Change this. Let's go back to the risk-helper. Down here. We're going to go back to elegant entries. Let's get data. DF equals N- DFSMA. And then we'll pass N. This symbol. What else does it mean? This symbol is nice fun. Nice fun. Got nice folks though. Okay. The symbol it needs. Let's see what else it needs. It needs the symbol. It needs a time frame. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. Let's do 1 hour. Let's do 120. Let's go back to the risk-helper. Let's go back to the nice functions. DFSMA. Oh, it just returns us. DF. So let's print DF. By the way, if you need this function, let me just look at real quick so you can use screen-chot in. Okay. See that part? Boom boom. Screen-chot. Boom boom. It needs a little function. Sometimes forget that I'm on video and I need to help you out with the actual functions that are prebuilt. So let's say I'll get entered now and see if we get the DF. Okay, perfect. So we get this data frame, which is nice. It shows the support, the resistance, and shows the volume, high low close. So it says 1275 is the resistance, and 1189 is the support. So let's go over here. 1189 is the support. So it goes all the way down here. 1189 probably. And then it says the resistance is 1275. So that's because it's 200 bars. 201 hour bars is a lot. But what about... What's 115-minute bars? The light of my 60s. It's 25 hours. It's probably plenty. So let's do 105-minute bars. It should be about 8 hours. And let's run it back. Because now it should be a little tighter range. It's too bad this view off. I got so excited when I saw this yesterday. I was like, oh, it calculated the view off for you. That's awesome. Okay, so support is 1207 now. That looks... All right. And then 1224. This is about 8 hours of data. I believe this is off the close. So in order to enter, I want my entries around... Either... So the way I would like to enter for this, I know I said view off to start, but... In reality, it's probably to have... Better to have it near support and resistance. So it's going to be less trades. You just think it through here. I want to have it support. If we want to go long, we put the orders near... Prison support, which would be down the edge. If we want to go short, we put a near resistance. Because in reality, the view off is good, but it's a little more aggressive. Now, if I was trading at work, I wouldn't want to be aggressive. I wouldn't want to get into a lot of positions. I would want to get into a great position. So... So let's put them by the support and resistance. Because then that's the easiest, simplest way in order to do this. If it's at support and resistance, it's not going to over trade. And I feel like if you're at work, you don't want to be trading at time. So... Let's say, look at the support... Resisting. Put orders around there. So, print D up, and then we want to go ahead and get support. Equals and then resistance. Equals. And... To get the support, I believe there would just be df.iloc at the negative one position. Whatever it says, what does it come out to say? It says resistance. It's support. Support. And then I believe this will be resistance. But resist. Like this. So instead of printing the data, well, I can put the data in just to make sure. Let's go ahead and say print F. This is... This is support. This is resistance. Resist. And support. Okay, so let's run that. So this gets support. And this is the resistance. So it looks like for the last eight hours. Well, you have about eight hours. You see, 1150 to 335. For the last eight hours, the support is 1207. Let's see if that's valid. Two hours. Eight hours. So eight hours is about here. So support is 1207. So all right around here. I guess the calculation didn't grab that wick. But that's fine because this is 1207 inch right here. And then the resistance says 1223. And eight hours is here. So 12.3. Okay, this is looking pretty good to me. So what I want to do here is enter orders in this section. So if I wanted to go long, I would want to enter orders throughout here. The bottom third quartile. And I wanted to go short. 1223. I would want to do it around here. So short in here, long in here. Perfect. I want to get the bend in the ass. Let's go ahead and keep this here. Let's get the bend in the ass. And I think I have that right up here. That's big. Let's say ask equals ass bend. That's a one. That's actually big. So big equals that. And so support. I'm just going to make this a little shorter. This is support. This is resistance. This is big. Just like that. I could just say this is the current price. And let's run this. See what we get. Okay, so this is the price. This is the support. This is the resistance. Let's do an average. Average of the support in the resistance. So let's say support plus resistance. And let's divide that by two. Divide it by two. And I know this isn't the true average price, but this will be an average of the support in the resistance. Okay, so 12.14 is right in between. It's more the midpoint. Old Scott mid. You see how this is already getting to be a better way to enter a tri-eighth then looking at the charts? The charts are like a slot machine. Charges are like a set up as a casino in my opinion. So you have to distract from the true numbers that actually matter. So you have support here. You have resistance here. The price of that. The midpoint is this. So where do we want to buy the way we want to say? Okay, let's go ahead and do a little input here. Let's say start. Enter equals. Let's say size. Entry. Divide equals input. Would you like to buy or sell? Yes. And then we'll enter that and then say if entry size equals B print. We are going to place by orders. Alive entry size equals cell print. We are going to place cell order. Perfect. Now if we want to buy, definitely want one buy at the support. So let's go say entry. How should we do this the most pathonic way? Let's say buy price equals support times. Support. This just depends on the. Let's say support times 0.1%. So 1.0 is there one. I believe you. If I price one. And then sell price one equals resistance times 0.99. Let's point 1% left. So we've got that. So those are good buy price one or one. Buy and sell price. Already can you see how if you're at work, you're not tripping because if you feel like you want to go along or short. And later I can show you how to have your bot beside you want to go along and short. Made a ton of videos already about that. But I want to show you something that will help you you know straight at work. Trade. Why are you doing something else? So we know the support is at 1207. Let's put some lines there. Let's just support. And then it says down here resistance is 12.22. Let's get to 12.22. It's like that. So that's resistance that support. And then the midpoint is this 12.14. 0.97. Close enough. That's the midpoint. Make that a smaller one. Color. Perfect. So now we know all that. We can even build things in like, okay well if it's massaged through support of resistance, we might want to take a directional trade the other way. So it looks like it came straight to the midpoint and bounced. So I might put a buy. Buy two. Make that buy two. And let's go ahead and say buy price one. Let's just say BP one. SP two. Change things up a little bit. And we'll make these smaller. But this can get us into a little bit of a position. So let's say let's just put it at the mid. It goes man. And this changes this to BP one. Or we need to. As Peter. Just like that. So first we have our first order here. At the midpoint. And that's going to be a small order. Maybe we should make this like 25% of size. And then the resistance and support can be 50% of size. And that's leaving 25 left. We will do 20% of size. 35% of size. 40% of size. 60. And then another 40% of size. Equals by price two. Five by three BP. Three. Equals. And then SP. Three. Equals. And how are we going to do these ones? Well, maybe we can wake up. Point two. So I'll do that. I'll make it point two five. So by price will be. Under it though. So these were over it. So this is going to be support. And then point two five percent less. So support times point nine. What would that be? Nine some five. No, I don't think that's 2.5. So that's nine, nine, seven, five. That's better because that is point two five percent less. And then the resistance, we'd actually have it above. So if the resistance times 1.0025. Point two five percent more. That makes sense? And let's do size one. Size one equals size times point two. That's 20 percent of the size. Size two equals size times point four. And then size three. Three. Three equals size times point four. So we're getting 40 percent, 40 percent. A little bit of love, a little bit of love. And then when you mix this in with the risk controls that we've put out throughout this channel. Well, it's going to enter and then it will exit if you have your max law. Which is awesome. So I have a question here. What's the difference between this point five? I don't think I want the myth. I think I want a little bit between the myth. That's what I'm going to do. Instead of the myth, I'm going to get the myth of the myth. We'll get the average of the myth and the support. So let's do mid times resistance divided by two. I like that better. Because that's going to give us the mid price plus the resistance divided by two. And it will put the entry around here. So if I'm shorting, I'll be entering like now, here and here. I like that a lot better. And then this will be mid times support divided by two. All right. That's way better in my opinion. Because I don't really want this noise down here. One, maybe by one, or by one, or by one, or by one, or by one, or by one. So two would be here, so three. I want it to be right here if we're shorting. So let's make it point one five just to make sure we get that entry. So let's change this to eight. Change this to one. And then the size is point four. Okay. So we're going to say down here, the mix, that cancel orders, cancel all orders, symbol. Just to make sure all orders are canceled. Let's do the same thing. Or well, I can just copy that over after. I'm liking this a lot because this takes out the emotion. And like for example, if you're headed to work or you got something to do, and you want to go longer short, well, you just set your bot to go longer short. It puts them in the orders. And then you have the bot running. If you look at my other videos, you've seen that we have a risk bot that will run and just monitor my position 24-7. And it'll take profits or stop me out whenever needed. So to do this, we just want to create limit by order. So let's type that and say femex.create limit by order because we want to the bot. We pass in the symbol. We pass in the size one. And then we pass in the price, the BP one. And then we pass in the brand. And then we do that two more times because we want three orders. So size two, change that, be sure to change these. That's how we forget that. And that's never good. And then three. Okay, so now we're going to place those three orders. If entry, side equals b, we're going to place those three orders. If it equals cell, we're going to then do the same thing. Sp, Sp, Sp. Sp. Believe the size, we'll say the same. Sp, one. Sp, two, Sp, three. So these should place the order now. So it's going to say, would you like to buy yourself? It's going to grab all this data. It made, it got the bid in the ass. It made the support and resistance. It made the in between support and resistance. Now eyeball this chart looks like we're moving upward. But it's also could be downward. It does, I don't know. That's the thing about not really trying to trade this right now. But I can build this into a bot that will analyze the data. And then it will put these elegant injuries as mentioned above. So let's go ahead and make sure my size is increasing. Size is 10. Make it 12. Potentially. And one thing we're going to want to make sure to do here, make sure it's an integer. So let's go ahead and say in, not by price, but size. Say in, just in case, so we can round at the whole numbers pretty much. It's going to round up or down, the test is on it. And to make sure that I'm going to put a odd number like 11. Let's go ahead and open this. Let's put the positions. See if this does it. It doesn't really matter which way I go right now. This is a little test. But I am building this for myself. Go ahead and move to these prints. Support versus if we can keep that one. We're going to place the bite orders at. So this would be buy price, one BP, one BP, two, two and BP, three. And then I'm going to say the same thing here. Let's just copy these. And put SP. SP. Okay, now let's see how this does. So we should see positions opening up here if I run this. But maybe not. Maybe an air. So it should ask me, do I want to buy or sell? Would you like to buy or sell? Let's go ahead and say buy. Air and place day. Open this up a bit so I can see a little bit. 167. So I have a net the air. It happened here. So let's see what we did. They didn't know air in place ordered. I should have seen this before. So I tried to create limited buy order. I tried to just do my math notes. So I wanted to create limited buy order. We pass in the symbol. We pass in the amount. Pass in the buy price. Okay, let's look at the buy price. Maybe the buy price can't be that many. That many digits. So let's try to make it a little smaller around it. Let's see if that fixes this. Oh my goodness, I see what happened. That's funny. So what I did here is I multiplied that. So it needs to be added. You probably saw that before I did. But these should be added instead of multiplied. Let's try that again. You should pop up now. Let's try to buy for the end on it. Let's save by. Okay, there we go. So, and then it used 12. You see that? Okay, perfect. This is working right. And then it put the orders in. Let's go ahead and just open this up with it so we can see where the orders are. Look at that. Isn't that a great way to trade? Instead of using your emotions. Okay, I want to buy. This is where I buy. This is my buy zone. Buying halfway from the midpoint to support. I'm also buying at support. And then right out under support. This looks beautiful to me. If I were to go to work right now, I would feel very comfy. Because I'm just going to plop this function into my risk bot now. And be able to just know for a fact that, hey, I'm only going to enter the trade if I can get a great deal. And then if I hit my max loss, stop loss, whatever, then I will exit. It will exit automatically for me. So this is pretty great. Now let's go ahead and try this for the opposite one. The cell that makes sure everything looks good on the cell side. So let's run this. Let's say cell, it should cancel the orders. Cancel it. Boom, boom, boom. Wow. That is beautiful. So these are the new figures. That refresh here. Okay, boom. I like those cell orders too. So we have two, which is about 20% of my size. And then a little bit higher. We have four. And then a little bit higher. We have another one. So boom, boom, boom. Just like that. That's how I'm going to enter my trades if I was about to go to work. Now, obviously this isn't necessarily the best way. It could be a better way. Maybe we'll just do two orders. I'll test it out with two orders. I'll test it out with three orders. Maybe I'll do 60% of size here and make it just two orders instead of having this midpoint one. And in order to do that, that's pretty simple. I would just say, hey, I want that to be that. And I want to make this 0.5, this 0.5. And then let's go ahead and get rid of that. Get rid of that. So I'm just making it two orders now. And here I can just delete that. This is even more conservative way out there to do it. Now I can probably put this in a way that I don't need to get rid of all of that. But I can probably do that just on the next video. If you want me to continue this and keep optimizing with you, just let me know. I'm happy to help. I think that's probably good for this video. I don't know how long we've been going. But I just showed you how to trade from work. I trade while you're doing something else. So if you do appreciate that, make sure to stick around. You catch my next video. But other than that, I'll see you in the metaverse. I built a trading bot and it absolutely changed my life. I don't know about you, but when I used to trade by hand, I would get emotional. And things like, I would see a green bar here and be like, oh, I need to get in. And then maybe you would go up one more green bar. But oh, it's going to the moon and then dumps on me like this. Or for example, if I'm shorting, I would see this big red bar and say, oh, I need to get in on this. I need to short this and then boom, it would go green again. So I don't know if this is happened to you. But ever since I started to automate my strategy and build bots instead of trying to trade by hand, I've had much, much better results. And I've been able to save a lot of my portfolio here in this treacherous bear market. So what I want to do in this video is just bring you along with me and show you exactly how I do this. I create new bots every day or I'm tweaking a past bot. And there is something I want to build here today with you that is pretty easy to do. It might be a little bit of a challenge if you're new, but the thing is, is I'm not like a super smart guy. I'm just a regular dude that knew, hey, I'm a decent trader, but I could be way better if I removed my emotions. You know, some days the emotions just get in your way and you're just not able to trade. So my thought was, hey, if I could put all of these rules I have in my head into an algorithm or a bot, then it could just trade for me and it wouldn't have emotions. When it's supposed to sell it, actually sells. When it's supposed to buy it, actually buys. Right? So you can do cool things like put an SMA or the VWOP and all that good stuff. And then just tell the bot to buy or sell when you want it to. So like I said, I do this every single day and I probably code for four to six hours a day on my trading algos. And I thought, hey, you know, nobody else is really teaching this stuff out there. And I've learned everything online and when I come across something that is hard to learn, I know if it's hard to learn for me, you know, I've been spending a lot my whole life online trying to learn different types of things. And when I find something that's hard for me to learn, well, I assume that it's going to be hard for others as well. And the way I look at it is if I just code and show you what I'm doing in the day, you'll see that I'm just a regular dude. I didn't go to school for coding, engineering, all that good stuff. I don't have a math degree or anything like that. I probably see I'm not like a super smart genius. And in my mind, I thought that coders were all just like super smart geniuses. But at the end of the day, it's just like learning anything else. If you look at these bar charts, I remember when I first started looking at bar charts, I was like, what are these? Like candlesticks charts. I was like, what is it? Okay, green probably means it's going up. I can see that red going down. Yeah, yeah. What are these wicks? What do they mean? So just like anything else, you can learn anything. I'm learning Spanish right now. And Spanish is so much harder to learn than it was to learn how to code because Spanish is different language. The code is in English, which makes it easier, right? Because everything is on Google, you're just a professional Google. So what I'm going to build today is just a simple little bot that allows me to say something like, hey, I want to make a trade of $1,000. And I want it to be on BTC. Or I could say, hey, $1,000 on Ethereum. And then since on all of these exchanges, if I go to my actual themex account, they use contracts. So one contract equals $X. It could be like $5, $4. So what I want to build today is something that does the conversion for me because when you are trading with contracts, the conversion's a little different. It's not just like, hey, I want to buy $1,000 on Ethereum or $1,000 on BTC. It's different. So we have to make a little function today that goes ahead and says, hey, I want to buy and you put in the amount you want to buy. And it will convert to the contracts and then buy yourself based off of that. Now, if you will be watching my other videos, you might be able to piece together what I'm doing here. But I'm building this really interesting bot that has machine learning and all types of different indicators and strategies kind of built into it. It's kind of like a master bot. And what I do is I just build pieces of it here on YouTube. And I follow along if you'd like and see what I'm actually building. So let's go ahead and get started. I have my discord here at the bottom right. Feel free to join that. What I want to do here is I have this file that we've been working on together. And in my other videos, I just want to, if you want to see a screenshot, these are the imports I'm using. So I don't have to go through all this again. These are the imports. These are the variables and inputs. This is how you connect to the exchange. I mean the CCXT. Okay, back in the VMAX. This is where you put your keys in your secret. But I don't show my keys in secret on screen for obvious reasons and make sure to keep your eyes very safe as well. And then let's just start building this because this function here is super important. And I'll explain it again just because I know I didn't explain it very well. Let's call this function dollar contract calculator. And I'll explain it right now. But essentially this converts dollars to contracts. Because I'm going to be contract trading. So I need them to convert dollars to contracts. And let's see here. I can pull up. I'm going to pull up another screen. Okay, there it is. And I want to try to go to my VMAX account. Sorry, I have to pull some of this off screen just because, you know, look at those. Kind of sketch to be sharing things on YouTube because, you know, it's easy to withdraw funds and whatnot with my keys and whatnot. So, be a little careful here. Okay, so let's go ahead here. And this is going to be pretty simple to do. I've been having a hard time, but I want to show you, and I just want to be as transparent as possible. If I show you everything, then you're going to learn with me. If I look here, you can see right here. This is contract. I'm on Ethereum USD. And if I said one contract, you can see it's worth $5.86. But then if I have 10x leverage, it actually costs $59. So, what it needs to do is one, figure out how much one contract is for the symbol. And then two, pull in the leverage being used. Because, for example, if the contract is $5.86, but I'm using 10x leverage, the cost is only going to be $59. So, I need to make sure to say, okay, let's say symbol, equal symbol, we want to pass them the symbol. And if you haven't coded before, don't worry about it. Just watch this because this is how you learn how to code. You know, just like you learn how to speak. You know, your parents probably just didn't teach you how to speak. So, this is how I learn how to code. Just like watch it over and over again. And then eventually try some things. And copy code. Just copy people's code on YouTube. And over time, you're just going to get good at coded. And then it's just like once you know how to code, you can build anything, which is awesome. So, any strategy you have, boom. So, we want to pull in and figure out how much one contract costs in USD. And then get the leverage being used. And then what else should we do? I think that's probably a good start. But I think you understand now, like if I wanted to do, if I wanted to spend, like, for example, $587 in USD is 100 contracts. But then again, I divided by 10 because of my leverage. And that's how much USD would actually do. So, this is kind of tricky to do. I've actually been playing with this a little bit. But let's go ahead and say, femex.fetch. And let's just play around and see what we can get. Fetch, markets, my trades, open high, low closed volume, open orders, orders status, partial balance, permissions, positions, status, takeer. Let's try takeer. And then let's just pass in the symbol. And I believe our symbol up here is the eUSD. Okay? So, let's go ahead and say, takeer equals that. And then let's print takeer. And let's just run contract calculator. Contract, talk. Just like this. And let's put the time dot sleeve just so it doesn't move on to anything else. And this should print out the takeer information. I don't know what that takeer information is. But we shall see in two seconds. Okay. So, the takeer information. Let's go ahead and read through this to figure out if it shows us the price. So, date time, the high, the low, the bid, the bid volume, the ass, the ass volume, the VWAP doesn't look correct. Let's open, close, the change, the percentage, change, the average, the base volume, the info, ask, bid. Okay. So, this looks like the same information just in a different. A different way. Okay. So, I actually don't see what the cost is for one contract. Let's do that. Let's go ahead and try something else. Let's say, theme x. And this is part of coding. Like for me at least. A lot of guests in check in. You got to figure out exactly what, what works and what doesn't. The order book, markets, fetch markets. We can try fetch markets. I don't think this is going to work, but let's go ahead and do this. A little lazy, so I'll mark this one out. But then I'll copy it, paste it here. And we're going to just fetch markets. I think this is going to give us all of the markets, which is going to be a lot. Give it a second. Hmm. Let me re-run it. There it is. Perfect. So, quote size. I wonder if we can get fetch markets just for the symbol. Because that would be super, you know. No? Well, I'll look through this big old thing of JSON here. Let's go ahead and... So this looks like all markets for the contract size and none. And this is a lot. Maybe what we should do is go ahead and say for the markets. Let's put it in a... Put in the app, hand it's different. Put it in the DIA. So let's do that. So... Let's go ahead and say ticker equals just to reset that. And say PD.data.print.fromDictionary. And then we'll pass in the ticker. So what this is going to do is going to make a dictionary out of that. And then we'll pass in the ticker. And then we'll pass in the ticker. So what this is going to do is going to make a dictionary out of that. Okay. Looks like there's 500 lines. Okay, good. I see the ETH-USD actually right here. So how do you do... How do you pick a column? I just want the column that has... has ETH-USD. So... Hmm. Let me think about this for a second. I've done this many times. Essentially I just want to grab this column here. So where symbol equals... symbol equals ETH-USD... that would be pretty tight. If I could just get that. I've not done that multiple times. I should just look in here. For example, on my half. Where symbol equals... I think we've actually done this here in this file. So let's go ahead and look for that. Fill the figures and close the F. Let's fill it. Okay. So... Let's try this. Let's say... Excuse me. So let's say... symbol DIA equals ticker. Ticker dot look where ticker symbol. I think it was equals symbol. Equal symbol. And then... I think I need to see this again actually. It's not quite sure what the thing said. Okay. What are the columns called? I can't see it. Oh, ID. What is this? Actually, ID. So ID equals symbol. I just want that. Let's just Google it real quick. Get data frame where column equals something. How do I select a subset? And this is coding for me at least. I mean, just Google banks because I like to joke. This is just like a pre-interprofessional. Professional... Really. So... Okay, I like that. That's a good way. So let's try that. And I'll do that by saying... Boom. Let's say symbol DIA equals ticker where ticker ID equals symbol. And then print symbol DIA. See if this works out. Let's do all that. Okay. Nice. Perfect. So we first get the regular DIA. I'll just delete that for now. Because we don't need any more. Now we have this information. And... Let's go ahead and say... I only want now the info. I only want to print the info column of this symbol DIA. So that will be info equals symbol DIA. Where it says info. And then let's print info. Okay. So we have the info which is awesome. Now what's in that info? Is the question. Let's go ahead and open this up a little bit. Name on that symbol DIA. Okay. So how do we go DIA to JSON? That's what I need to figure out. Now, DIA value to JSON. So we go DF to JSON. Hmm. What we can do... JSON equals info that 2 JSON. Orient equals... I don't know what that is. Info. Let's print JSON. Let's see if this works. Go ahead and check. Never heard anybody. Okay. That's it. Info. JSON equals info DIA. 2 JSON. Info. So info. Where's that record coming from? On here. Now, whether you get from DF to JSON is a string. What if I did it without orient? Okay. Perfect. Okay. Let's go ahead and read through some of this. Dang. This is a lot. Shoo. I wonder what records is in this example. I don't know if you can see this. Oh, maybe I just use records. Orient equals records. And then let's try this out here. Add this stuff they put in. 1 minus 1 dot replace. And then put in these curly things. Back curly things. And then say, karma. Cull it again. That curly thing. This curly thing. Okay. See if that works. Let me do it. Okay. It works. Awesome. So now we can go ahead and say, let's talk time. Carving all this. Symbol. Let's go ahead and just make another file here. Let's call it random dot JSON. And in this file, I'm going to paste that. And then I'm going to format it. Format document. Okay. Perfect. Look at that. Imagine. Remember, I don't know how I code. I guess I do not. But this is not really not that hard. So I can see that the contract size is 0.005. That could be useful. Because then we can get the price times the contract size. Take size. You know what price? Maximum order. Description. Initial margin. So remember, I'm trying to be able to say, I want $1,000 and convert it to the contract. Initial margin. Thanks, Carving. Okay. Well, I think we just go in here and get the contract size of them. Right? So let's go ahead and do that. So JSON contract. I don't know if it was snake case or what. Contract size. Say contract size equals that. And then print contract size. So I'm going to delete not the meat foot. Mark out all of these. Notice distractions and see if this works. Okay, I just did something wrong here. And JSON equals that. Print JSON. Contract size. We can use these. JSON may be zero. Contract size. Try that out. Okay, so string it as these must be integer. Let's turn this JSON. JSON df equals JSON dot, no sorry. PD that data frame. PD. Data frame. From dictionary. And then we'll put in the JSON. And then print JSON df. I was doing this. This JSON isn't set up too good. But we'll see. Data frame construct. Data frame construct or not properly called. Okay, so it looks like the constructors is not. Formatted correctly. But what I do want to chest right now is. I'm going to pause this. Let's just do a little math here. Because we know that before we waste more time, I want to see the math equation here and make sure it sets up. So 0.005. Multiply by the price. 1.173. 3.11 equals price per contract equals. And then let's print price per contract. And let's see what happens here. See if this is the actual price per contract. 586. All right, sweet. We figured out the price per contract. Now we just need to be able to do this programmatically always. Throughout any symbol. So as you can see, it says 5.85. And over here is 5.86. So we figured out the process in order to get the price per contract, which is awesome. We just need to figure out how to go ahead and get that information from where it's at. Cool. Take it here. And we know we can get this JSON here. But the JSON is not set up correctly. So maybe I messed it up here. Maybe there needs to be a comma elsewhere. Let's go ahead and just make sure that this is correct. So we need to fill 2Json-oriented records. 1, 2, negative 1, dot replace. And then it was a quote, bracket, comma, bracket, comma, quote, bracket, space, comma. Okay, so this. Oh, look at this. Let's try that. Looks like a newer version of pandas here. Let's do this again. So let's just say JSON. Json, or what was the default info, dot 2Json. And then we'll put it pass in the temp JSON. The info, right? And then orient equals records. And then lines equals true. And then let's name this JSON equals. And then let's say print JSON. Get that work. At least we know where the data is now. That's a good thing. Okay, method is not inter-rible. Okay, make sure I did this correctly. I'm going to find another approach to this. Because I'm not quite sure. I'm just kind of looking over here at this information. So I think there's got to be a easier way to do this price per contract. That's what we need. So let's just go ahead and delete all this. Let's print info again. Because this is the column we need. Let's go ahead and open this up a little more. So symbol code. Info dot values. Okay, that looks better. Now it looks like a list. So let's say info equals info dot values. And then info zero equals info. Because I think that will get as inside the list. Yes, perfect. And then we need to get to contract size. Contract size equals info dot contract size. And let's go ahead and print contract size. Oh, there we go. We got it. So 0.005E. Now we just need to remove the ETH part. So that's pretty easy to do. How to remove. Let's say how to remove. What are they called letters? After number. Remove what the. Remove anything after number. A1 is exactly what we want. Okay, string value. Python. Remove numbers from string. How to remove letters after number. Characters. That's the word I would put it more. So split. I think I was going to answer it the first one. How do I remove a sub string from the end of a string? How to remove characters after number. Use it. Okay, I know it's the string on split. I just need a little fresher. Needle or fresher. So what is it? One. So split on your subrider at most. Take the first piece. One of the first one is there. Okay, I got it. So they're just saying it's separation. Perfect. So let's go ahead and say contract size again. Contract size equals and then we'll say split set or whatever they put. We'll put it as a space and we'll just separate contract size. And we'll say separate. And then we'll say one. Not quite sure what that does, but it's just working. String object is not all open. Oh, if you get the idea, put it out on text.split. Maybe it's contract size. There we go. Very nice. Okay, now let's turn that into an integer. So let's say contract size equals hint contract size. And then oh, not it. Let's do float. Because it needs to be multiple. Okay, perfect. So now we have the contract size. We can then say contract size. Let's get the bid ask. So ask bid. And then for the symbol. And then the ask is there, but the bid is there. So we should get the bid and bid times contract size. Right? This is the bid. And if we go here, the bid is the price people pay right now. So bid times contract size, which we just found, is the same as this equation. And let's say USD per contract equals that. So USD per contract is that. And let's print USD per contract. And these two numbers should be the same. If this same, we are ballin and we are off to the races. All right, that's good enough for me. That is good enough for me 5.87 and 5.86. Okay, perfect. So we did the first thing. And the first thing was to figure out how much one contract was. And we'll just put a done there. And now we need to pull in the leverage being used. And we're going to think how we're going to do this. Okay, we're going to set leverage actually. So we will tell it how much to use. So let's go ahead and pass that in as well. Leverage. Leverage equals leverage. And I think we have a leverage up here. 10. I actually want to bring it down a bit. This bot that I'm thinking about deal Dean is going to be based off of smaller leverage. So set leverage. So we'll say set leverage. There we go. Mix that set leverage. I have that somewhere. This is what I love about coding. It's just that once you do it once, you don't really think about it again. And if you do have to think about it, that's okay because it's all on Google. So leverage and symbol. If you mix that set leverage. Okay, so that will set the leverage. And if we set the leverage. To that, to whatever we pass in. Set leverage. And then divide. Okay, divide leverage. Let's say divide leverage. Divide contract size. By leverage. To get USD cost. Right? Because one right here actually cost me 59 cents because I have 10X leverage. And let's test this actually with a... Well, I changed my leverage to 5. So one should actually be twice that. So like $1.18 or something. So. Let's say leverage. I said right here contract size. So contract size. USD per contract. You get rid of this for now. Just leave it. USD per. Divide it by leverage. Equals. Cost. What is that equals? That equals the cost, okay? So cost. And then let's print. Cost. Okay, so 5.88 divided by. 5. Let's go ahead and test it out. Let's say 5 contracts. Oh, we just have one contract. So that's perfect. You can see 5.88 right here. And then the cost is 1.18. So that's exactly what this is. 5.88 and 1.1769 round up 1.18. So with all of that being said. We want to be like, okay. Well, how much USD do we want to spend? How much USD do we want? So we should probably pass in. USD, USD. Amount. Let's say size USD. And we have to pass that one in. Well, it was just equals size USD. I just need to remember to always pass that one in. And size USD. Let's put that up here for now. But I'm going to always pretty much pass that one in. I'm going to say 1000. Because that's what we want to do. We want to be able to say, hey, with this function. We want to be able to pull in the leverage and then calculate. So I don't need to write that. But let's say size USD. So I'll just type in size USD right here. And if we want 1000 equals so that would equal 1000. So this equals 1000 for now. I'm just thinking this through with you. And if we want 1000 USD. And the cost per one is that per one. So we want to be able to use that for contract with leverage. The longest name ever. Cost per contract with leverage. So size USD divided by that is contracts needed. I know these are the grossest names ever. But I'd rather make it super clear for both of us. So, say, if we want blank USD in symbol. Sheesh. Blank contracts are needed. Then contracts needed. And this is going to be so you, I'm excited for this. This is going to be so useful. I'm building a really cool bot right now that needs to know. It needs to balance it out on both sides. So the two-sided bot needs to make sure to buy the same amount on both sides different tickers. So, we'll hit for you. I'll try to share this stuff in the discord. If we want blank USD. So, what do we call that? USD per contract? Size USD. I'm so excited that we finally finished this one because this is going to be so useful in so many of my albums. Any time that you have to trade two pairs of the same amount. If you're doing any sort of arbitrage or whatnot. This is going to be super helpful. If we want that many USD in this symbol, then blank contracts needed. So, let's print that out. And I don't want to print anything else out. And I'm just going to test it against the actual, the Phoenix. Let's run it. If we want one thousand USD in ETH USD, then 850 contracts are needed. That's wrong. Okay. It's not wrong. It's not wrong. 850. 849 is way closer. 849. 847. 846. So, it's not wrong. I mean, it's wrong, but not far off. So, I think I just need to improve my map. Because it's a little bit off. So, size USD. This is a cost for contract for the left leverage. Let's see what that is again. So, it's 117.67. And if I do that here, it's 118. Hmm. It's odd. Say, round, cost for contract for the left, and make it like three decimal places. See how that does? If that changes anything here. So, 117.177. So, 849, that's actually better. It's closer at least. Let's do round to the second. Because maybe they round. 118.17. Okay, that's looking better actually. I think they round. So, 847. 847.103. Could we get closer? Yeah, we could do five. I guess you can't probably see this, but the cost is 1001. I think I'm going to do it based off of the ask, then. Because if the answer is based off the ask, it's going to be different. I know we were already finished this, but like, I'm just trying to be perfect here. 847. 847. Man, I can't complain about that. I think what I'm going to do here is contract size. Contracts needed. Let's just make it an integer. And that should round it for pretty much. So, contracts needed equals an integer of that. And, what I should probably need that any would. So, we need 847 contracts. Hey, that's within $2. So, I think that's going to be good. And now I need to test this. So, contracts needed. We wouldn't need to return contracts needed for that. So, essentially, we can put in any symbol, USD size, and leverage. So, let's write that out. Call, funk, pass, symbol, USD size, and USD want it, and leverage. Okay? So, we'll do that. And now I can implement this into my other bot. If you want to see that other bot, let me know. It's going to be really, really great. It's a little bit of arbitrage, a little bit of machine learning. A lot of cool stuff. Let's go ahead and delete some of these notes, because somebody would roast the media the other day. But I have to make comments. Whatever. Don't care. Obviously, I do. I just deleted it, but I'm sorry. I'm sorry. I show you everything here. I'm slow. I want to think about this for a second. Let's pass in a different symbol. Let's pass in ADA, USD. Let's pass in 2000. Let's pass in. What was the other thing, leverage of 13, 14? I guess, because I can't type. And then let's see what it says. And if it works, then we just plop it into any bot, which is super dope. Okay. So, 46, if we want 2000 USD and ADA USD, then 4,347 contracts needed. So, let's test this out. And it should be with 2000. If I paste it in there, it's 2013. So, it's close, but I wonder where we can make this even more, I get super close. It's close enough, probably. But the thing is, I would rather be perfect. Because if you're doing arbitrage, you want it to be the same USD amount. I think this is close enough, I'm going to use it. But I'm also going to think about it a little bit. This works now, but it's a few dollars off. Need to think about how to make this even better. I don't know if it's a rounding error or what. But it looks like we grab the dictionary, we get the IDs, the values, the info, the contract size. Okay. So, you got the contract size, and then we're multiplied by the ask in the bid. Maybe something going on there, but... Nah. What's this contract size coming from? Float. Maybe if I rounded this. No, because we need that full thing, can't be round. It's the actual contract size. Set leverage. Leverage. Leverage. I think this is solved for now. I'm going to start using one of my bots. I'll maybe build that here on YouTube. But you know where to find me if you want to see that. So, let me know if you want to see more. See you in the next one. So, we're going to go ahead and build a liquidity sniping bot that pretty much removes the obstacle of slippage in your trading. Now, essentially what it's going to do is it's going to look at what the liquidity is like on each side on the bid and the ask. So, if it's in a buy order and it's trying to sell, you can see it says 4 here. Actually, I should probably zoom way in so you can see this. But here's the order book. Let's do that one more. Here's the order book. You can see 27,000 here, 600 on the bid, 25,000 on the ask. So, the max it would buy is what's on the ask. And if it was selling, then the max it would sell is what's on the bid. So, you can see it changes super quickly. So, this is going to be tricky. But I've needed this for a long time in a couple of my bots that maybe have two bigger size and I need to get in and out a little more elegantly instead of it. If you try to exit something like 50,000 size right now, it might go all the way up to 1175 or like three or four notches up or even higher depending on what you're trading. So, I've been needing this for a long time so I'm going to go ahead and build this out here with you. And essentially, let's go ahead and look at the import first. You can see here the imports I use, if you want to screenshot this real quickly, I know I'm kind of jumping into a function of a trading bot right now. But if you just hang around and watch, you'll see how it works. And then you can use it in your bots or however you'd like. But you can see, these are the imports. These are the inputs. Not all of these are very necessary for this. And then this is the connection to the max through CCXT. Now let's just make a function here. Def, liquidity, let's do lick, smiper, color this, and then let's explain it. This will return an order size to make dependent on the lick that is on the ask for the bid. And then what this does is it just allows you to get in and out more elegantly without having to have huge slippage. So, it's going to be super helpful for all of my bots move forward. I'll keep that up there. And then what we can do is we can actually use this function right here that says ask bid and we just pass them the symbol. And that function is going to give us the ask for bid and the order book. So let's just say order book equals ask bid and then pass them the symbol. And then we can print the order book just to see what it looks like. And from there we'll be able to figure out exactly how to pick this up. I didn't actually run it and I was running something else down here. It has marked that up now. And let's go ahead and try that again. So lick, smiper, let's put a time dot sleep here. So we don't go any further. Okay, perfect. There's the order books. This looks to be... It's supposed to be the bid. It's the ask. Let's go ahead and open this up a little bit so we can see the bid better. So this must be the price and this is the volume of what's on the order. So let's separate both of those out. How would we do that? Well... We have this that shows us we just go into the order book and we ask them for the bid. As you can see here, somewhere in this order book, see if we can find it. You can see here it says bid. So we go into the zero position, zero position, and then we look at bid. I'm sorry, the way around bid is in zero zero. So now that we have the order book here, we could say order book. We should say bid on liquidity on bid. Lick on bid equals it would be the order book, right? So we jump into the order book, we see here, and we would put in bid. So we just type in bid here. Bid. And then if this gets the bid, let's see here. Ask bid symbol. Oh, I see what's going on. I'm getting the ask in a bid because I'm returning the whole function here. So that's why I say ask bid order book. So I'm actually looking at a dictionary inside of like this, I guess, a little, a return symbol. So I get the ask in the bid. That's why it shows ask right here and the bid right here. And then it shows me the whole order book here. So in order to get this, what I want, this number right here, which is the amount of volume or liquidity on the bid, the earliest bid, well, I would do something similar to this, but I think it's going to be a one. It might be the other one. I hope you get the check. Let's go ahead and fix this order book would be the second position. Well, this is this way. Oh, book with two order book info. And then let's say order book info at the zero position is the ask. And then the bid is OB info at the one position. And then the OB, which is the order book, is OB info at the two position. And you can see that by this function right here for turning zero, one. Okay. So now just change this, put this somewhere else. Like it, that's fine. And then the bid liquidity bid lake should be that. I don't know the, we'll go ahead and just run that really quickly. Oh, print bid lake like this. And let's bring this down. Looks a little better. Okay, cool, cool, cool. Let's go ahead and run it and see what happens. We should get the liquidity unless I mix this up. It could be one zero. Okay, one thousand, it says. And here inside of this, yep, look, I got so bid. It says one thousand here. And it also says one thousand here, meaning I got the volume. Now, let's go ahead and test this again. But let's look at the actual lives data. So what are we, what are we looking at? We're looking at this right here on the bid. So it says 600 right now. Let's see what it says. It says 600. So you can see it now it gets the exact liquidity on the bid. So I'm probably going to use this in the manner of, hey, okay, now I know 600 on the bid. That is exactly what I can buy or sell. So if I'm like entering a position, I would just, if I wanted to enter as a market position, of course, if it's a limit position, this is kind of pointless, right? There's no need for liquidity sniper. You can just sit on the bid or the ask if I wanted to enter here in a position on a long. I would just sit here. But for some strategies, you want to enter on market orders. And if I'm entering on market order and I try to buy too much here, I might end up buying at the price and there might be huge slippage. So the reason we're building this is so I can just buy on the, buy on the ask, buy on the bid. So now that we have the bid link, I want to go ahead and say ask, click and then say OB, pretty much the same thing, but asks. And then zero, one, one. And let's go ahead and say, F, put the little curly's around it. So bid, lick is that, like that. And then ask, lick is this. And then I'm going to go ahead and return, ask, lick, sheesh, and bid, lick. And now I have a function that I can just say, hey, let's loop until, you know, exposition is all, but only get on the bid, buy on the bid. So let's go ahead and run this. All right. So you see the bid link? Was that? Let's try this again and keep our eyes peeled on the right, over here. So it should be 2.55, 3.55, good, 600. Awesome. So this works great. So how do we go ahead? What do we do next? This was awesome. The cleanest sniper. So this gives us the ask, lick, and the bid, lick. And then what if we want to buy something? Okay. So maybe we want to build this in a way like this, where essentially I could say, hey, I pass in the size, and then we pass in the size. So if we have a size of, say, like, $10,000 or something, well, I would pass in the size. I mean, let's first pass in the symbol. Symbol equals symbol, size equals size. So we pass in the size, and if this was the buy amount, $10,000, and we run this, and we see that we're trying to buy, so we have to buy on the ask, we see that, okay, that's actually quite a bit. But if this was like 200, we'd have 5 max 200 at the time. So we pass in the size, and then we pass in the symbol, pass in the symbol, pass in the size. Okay. I think that's good. And this gets the symbol here inside the side. It's also passing the execute, execute equals false, because sometimes we want to execute, sometimes we don't. So let's say if execute equals truth, we also need to pass in the buyer. Trying to think if it's better to put in this function, or put in this function. Let's say let's just do, buy equals truth, pass in buy equals truth, if false, it equals, and then pass in execute, pass in execute, as truth, the fault is false. So this is going to allow us to just say, hey, we only want to execute. Sometimes, sometimes, I just want to return it and execute it. So let's, inside this execute, let's say if, what did I call that? Buy, buy equals truth, buy equals truth, then we create the order. So we want to create order. It's pretty easy to do. Let's go ahead and see here. I would use create limit, and then let's go ahead and say this. Say feed max. Next dot. Create limit by order. And then we just pass in the symbol. Not create limit, create market. So one of this, create market by order, and we toss in the symbol, and the size. But since it's a buy, we want the ask leg, because this is a liquidity on the ask. Okay. That seems very good to me. We're going to have to loop this though. And I wanted to loop into a different function. Or not into a different function, but I wanted to loop and grab the data every time. So we want this whole function. I'm going to put this in a different function. Actually, I'll probably just throw this in the bot, like this kind of execution. Let me just tell you what I'm going to write. In case you want to close it out. But I'm going to put this into the actual bot section, because I think this is the important part of the liquidity sniper. Now I just make a wall loop. So make a wall loop. And check liquidity sniper. Okay. So make a wall loop. Check. Lick sniper every loop. And then place an order. Every loop. Tell filled. Tell sizes filled. So that's what I built. And now that I have this liquidity sniper here, I can just do that. Let's see here. I'm going to turn by and execute the off. Because I don't think that's needed anymore. And you know what? I could go ahead and just put this into my ask bid function. Yeah, I'm going to do that. I'm going to do that. Okay. So this is what we're going to bring this up here. And I'm going to post it down here. Because this ask bid is kind of one of my go-to's. I just get to ask in a bid. And that gives me the most kind of price. But this could also give me the bid liquidity at the same time on one singular call. So since I call this throughout my code in multiple places, now I've just beefed it up. So I'm not only getting the bid in the ask, but I'm giving the liquidity on the bid in the ask. So then I can return ask, lick, can buy, lick. Bid lick. Like that. And I have a new function that essentially gets bid in ask. Okay. So this function gets the bid and ask. And then new, because I need to implement all my other bars, new is also gets the liquidity. And then new is also gets the bid in the ask. So I can snipe. Perfect. So now in this liquidity snipe, I could actually just go ahead and make that wall of, I think about it. Okay. So let's go ahead and delete all this. And the lick sniper would pass in the size, for sure, the symbol of the size. The symbol of the size, and then it would just loop. It would just loop. So size equals that. And then a wall of size. I would grab position info. And the size of the position. And we would loop. While position size is less than size. So while position size is less than size. Prin. We are continuing to enter. I don't know if it's longer or short yet, but let's get the position info. Position info. Oh, I don't have it anyway. This calver OB and nice folks position info. Open positions. It's not going to work. Well, let's go back here and just write that out real quick then. Let's go ahead and see position info. I do have that somewhere. Let's go ahead and see here. Oh, there it is. Found it somewhere. Okay, let's just grab position info and throw this function here and here. And I'll let you pause it for like a second or two so you can do what you need to do. Do what you need to do with it. I don't know if it's going to work right away. I might have to make some tweaks, but put it right there. Okay, fetch balance, ramps, makes a dictionary. Okay, I'm going to give you like three seconds if you really want to go. This gets all my position info. Okay, there's the top part. One, two, three. And then use a lot of art. One, two, three. And then I'll show you how it works because you need to get the position info. So let's go ahead and say position, size equals position info size. So zero, one, two. Okay. So position size equals position info to that should work. And while position size is smaller than size, we are entering. And I'm not going to return anything for now, but let's run this and see how it works. See if it works, not that. Oh. We are continuing the order of enter. And it's just going to crash my computer. That's good. So it shouldn't do it if I reverse this. And if that's true. Okay, sweet. Looks like it's working. Let's see here. So when does that, oh, it probably popped up at the start. It showed a different line. It came from there. Perfect. So while position size is under size. And then what size? Look at my right now. Size. Oh, okay. Let's put it at like 400. And I don't know how much that's going to be. 1200. Okay. That's 1400. I guess I could just amp up the leverage here. Just because I'm going to be in and out. I mean, I guess I could be 1400 to the slide. I'm going to be in and out. But I want to go bigger. So I can make sure that it's it works. You know? Okay. So this is a thousand. But this is 4000. So I'm going to put 4000 here. 4000. And down here, I need to remember to do this. I need a time dot sleep between orders. Time dot sleep of, let's say, 10 seconds. Or actually, let's do like five seconds. Yeah. Okay. So while position size. And then we want to do a few cancel orders. Let's go ahead and do themix dot cancel. Dot cancel. All orders. And then we just pass in the symbol. Okay. So every time it goes through, he's going to cancel any orders. Not that that's needed. I just use it as precaution in case I had like a. I don't know. Like another order floating around. But I shouldn't. I'm just going to have that. I just like to just kind of have it. But it's one. And now I want to say, Phoenix dot create market by order. And then I think I just pass in the symbol. Symbol. And position. No, no, no, no, no, no. I need to get the. This. Need to get the ask. I. Like. So. Get asked. Nick. And did. So that would be. Ask. Did. And then I think it was zero one two three four five. I think. Ask. Well, let's get all of it. And then. Did. Ask. Equals. Did. Ask. And at the. What's that? What was that? Like three. No, zero one. Zero was asked. Two was. Did. Three was. Order. Was asked. Ask. Nick. And five was. Did. It's my memory. Seriously. Correct. Five. Okay. Okay. I jumped. Always in law. Sweet. All right. So we have that information. Perfect. So that is how much I would make the order for. I think we have to do this though. If. By. Equals. True. Then we'll be buying. And what would this be if we're buying? We need to ask. Like. Because that's the size. And only two things we need is the symbol on the side. Symbol of the mouth. So if we're buying. It's true. And then. This. Let's get rid of it. Print. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. And then. Print. Making a buy. Order. And I need this to be a little nicer than that. For symbol. With size. And this would be ask. Like. Should it make a ah? Or would it make a. eneve by order better than that? Or would it have a nearby forever. Or would it have aah? Or would any of it have a roof and a bare face? Or would it have a tight case? Or would it have that that was used. Yeah. And then. And then if it's not true. make biorter and this would be a cell order and so cell would need the by-lay and this would be by-lay. I keep doing that. It's actually bid-lay. Bid-lay. Cancel orders, make cell order. I mean that change, change this. Licksniper cell order. Let's yellow ourselves, cell order. By-order. Just like that. And by, it was that true or false size. By equals true. But we will pass that in. And then it should just keep filling up until... Oh, and I need to do this. I need to run this again. At the end. Because after it makes the by-order and sleeps is going to get the position size again. A fresh position size. And then it's going to check the position size versus the size. And the size is going to stay the same. So every time it loops through it's going to say, hey, is it a by? If it's a by, then we're going to make orders at the liquidy sniper. Boom boom. This should be pretty quick. Boom boom boom. And then after it makes the order, it's going to buy on the ask from the liquidy to the amount that it has. And then it's going to sleep for five seconds. And it's going to go through. It's going to pull this data again to get the position info. And then specifically the position size. And at the position size is still smaller than the size. It's going to go ahead and buy again. And then again. And then once this is bigger. What's it bigger? Once position side is for example, okay, 101 or 100. 100. Okay, so this is not equal to. So if it's bigger or equal to, it stops. Alright, I'm testing this out real money. So let's go ahead and look at the orders coming. And should we buy or sell? I'm going to buy. Let's go ahead, the liquidy sniper and symbol size. And buy. So I'm just going to, I don't even need to do anything here. Because it's all the. Whatever I have left off the variables. And then buy. So I just put true, but I don't need that because it's all, it's all these. It's the same symbol, it's the same size. And it's still by. So let's go ahead and run it. Two happens. Oh, okay. So there we go. Let's see what's going on there. The bit asks is up here. Zero, one, two, three, four. Okay, so I just did that wrong. So this must be three. This must be four. Which makes sense. I just counted from. I counted from normal human count instead of coding out. And all right, let's do this. See much of the videos now. Plenty. Oh, you know what? This is actually going to be bad. I just thought of something. Oh, glad I didn't run it. Okay, so what I just realized. Is it's going to take like it could buy all of that. So if it's like 3,700. So what we want to do since it's like if my position size is smaller than this, what's on the bit that I asked is the liquidity is going to tell us what's on the bit that asked. It was going to buy that. And that's not good because it might be bigger than what I actually wanted to do. So let's go ahead and say if did. No, it's. How would we do this? Is it big lake? Okay, this is going to be a gross way to do it. But if bid lake is bigger than size, then bid lake, lake equals size. Now this is so gross. I think there's a guy that is asking is bigger than size, then ask lake equals size. And this is going to be like for example right now if I wanted to buy 500, but there's 3,700. It would have gone ahead and just put the ask lake there 3,700, 0, which is way bigger than 300 or whatever. So in this case, if the bid lake is bigger than the size that we want to go in, then it will just set bid lake to size. The same thing with the ask lake. So that's what that does. Happy I thought about that before I ran it. But at the end of the day, I guess it doesn't matter too much. Go ahead, run. Okay, fully filled. You see that happen? And I should have... Oh, oh, oh. Okay, we need to stop this. I forgot to do this. Position size. Oh my goodness, I'm messing up here. I need all of this again. I need this stuff here as well because if I don't, then it's just... It's not going to update it. So I need the bid ask again and then it gets the new ask lake and the new bid lake and then does that same thing. But if it's over the size, if it's over position size, I'm going to do size equal... Nope, let's do new size. New size equals position size, position size, position size, minus size. And that's the new size. And if bid lake is bigger than new size, then size equals new size. And this equals new size, from new size. And then just to make sure it loops correctly, I'm going to say size equals new size. I don't know why I use new size there, but I could have just avoided all that. So now it's going to have the new size and if position size is smaller, then that, then it's good to go. Okay, so if I run this again, it shouldn't do anything because I think my size is bigger than... This is a... Yep, perfect. Let's go ahead and say file true. Print. Let's do print. Print's finished. With the liquidity, liquef sniper, position... Let's do symbol position. Symbol position is... Let's go ahead and put our F here. Position size. New size, old size. This size, that size. We size. Right size. Green size. Yellow size, blue size. Alright, so let's go ahead and run this. And it shouldn't enter anything, but it should tell us our position. Okay, I finished the liquef sniper, ETH position is 7590. And that's what it says right here, 7590 contract. I don't know how much that is. Looks like we actually are in profit, so why don't I just take this... Use my liquef sniper to exit now. And I'm going to exit... That much. So let's do that. Put it there. I just thought of another idea. I'm sorry, I keep coming up with ideas. Okay, so now it's false, so it should sell. Let's see how it does it. Give me out of this position with some profit. Okay, so it just sold one down down to... To the smaller size. Oh. Am I? I don't think so. Finish the liquef sniper. Oh. I see what's going on. It didn't do it because the size is bigger. What position size is smaller than size? Okay. Well, let's say open equals true and that... While open equals true and then... Let's do open equals true... And then we'll pass in false. So... You know, I don't know if that's legal or not. But in the liquef sniper we're in pass in false now. We're going to say it goes open is true. So while open is true and that... But it's only going to be false. So this should fail and then it should do it. I love this stuff. It really does. So open equals true. And here I pass in false. So open should equal false. Open equals true. Okay. While open equals true. So it equals false. And this is size equals undersides. Position size undersides. Okay. I can do this a more get away. But while open equals true. So it's false. Feeling it should get out. It should get out of position size. And so this is false. So maybe... All right. I'm just going to do it a different way then. I mean, I could probably think it through. But I'm in this position now. I don't really want to be forever. If... If open equals true. Do this. This is ugly I know. We're just going to do some spaghetti. Because who doesn't like spaghetti? Else. That. Wow position. So while position size is bigger than zero. So this means open equals false. And we need to close it. So let's see if this works. Here's my size. 590. Mix. Okay. It's sold. Sold on the... The vid and the ads. And then it should be 14 for 1208. Oh, an error. Must be between zero. Like itself. Vid lake. Vid lake is that. Vid lake equals new size. Called position size. I didn't do this part. So... New size. What is new size? What should it equal here? New size should be position size. So it should just be position size here. So it did like a bigger position size. And then size equal position size. Get rid of this. Get rid of this position. All right. This should work now. Because it's just same position size and the same position size is bigger than Vid lake. Then Vid lake is equal position size and position size the same thing. So... I don't know. We'll see. Should be selling at the vid. 600. Took about 600. And now I can take up to 600. 22,600. 608. All right. And it's out. So boom. We are the Quiti sniper. This is awesome. I love it. I love it. Love it. So this function we just built. It's a little gross. I know I get it. I get it. I'm not the best coder in the world. But... I'm never going to stop. And I'm going to keep building here. I'll try to build some on YouTube. Of course I can't. I upload 6 hours of coding per day. So I'm not going to do that. But... Oh, look at that. I would have killed it if I kept that position. But whatever. That's how it goes. And... I'm going to implement this into a few of my bots that really leave this right now. So... Yeah. I'll see you in the next video. A little bit of errors here. So what I want to do is I want to have a function here for an open and a close. Because I realized I put an if statement there and that just kills the whole position after it's done. Or it doesn't kill the whole position. But it doesn't keep looping. So I'm just going to go ahead here and copy this over to a sniper open and a sniper close. Because I just don't really want to mix these two up. Because I just ran it on a close and essentially what happened was it just went through one time. While position size. So it's actually going to be... While position size is bigger than zero. Because this is going to be our close one. So while it's bigger than zero, then we're going to do all of this. This. I'm going to put this here down at the bottom. And don't worry I'm not applying through this. I'll show you. Hopefully. Okay. Print. Boom. Boom. So while position is bigger than zero, I have that twice. If by equals true, then it would be that. But if by equals false, by equals true, by equals false, let's go ahead and take this. We can actually not even use the open equals true anymore. Open is true. Let's just remove that. And let's put this here. Open true. Remove that as well. By equals true. Still needs that position size, equal position size. And then while position size is over zero, it's just going to keep looping. And it's going to get the position size, size equals position size, position size. And since this is a close, we can try it out. Let's go ahead and say, lick sniper open. And let's just do a small position this time. Just in case there's some errors. And then let's go ahead and put a timed out sleep of 10 seconds. And then let's close it. So lick sniper close. We'll pass them the symbol. And the size again. I would just go ahead and say this though. Size equals position size. Because that's what we want to close that right. We want it. This is a closing order. So size equals position size. And then if it's bigger than size, then it's equal size. Perfect. And while position size. It's bigger than zero and position size is zero. Okay, that's good. Okay, I think this is going to work now. So, you know, whatever, put it in whatever there. It doesn't even matter. I guess I don't even need to put size in this one. Oh, I should also get the up here. I can get the if it's going to be a side. So I can do side down here. So zero one will be the side. And this would be position of the one. So let's go ahead and do this. Position info. Position info. Position info. It's equal size 2 equals position size equals that. And then position side equals position info. So position side. So say if position side side equals. I don't remember what it says, is the thing. I don't remember what it says is the thing. I think it's self. It would be a by order and else it would be a cell over there. If it's a cell, we got a by-by. Yeah, that's right. So the size for the same size. And do I need to go ahead and bring anything in here? By equals true. Don't need that anymore. And size, I don't even need that anymore. So I just pass in the symbol. And we go ahead and say, OK, so we're going to buy. All right, let's see how this liquidy's never does now. It's going to enter in a position on the whatever liquidy there is. So let's just go with the flow here. And it's going down or the price is going down here. So let's just do that. And let's say false true. I need to go ahead and remember what these are. This is a tough part for me, at least memorizing things. Size by. And I'm sure there's a better way to do this. But whatever. So by equals true. So we would buy. I actually wanted to sell. So buy what equals false. And then size equals. Oh, it's actually bad. Because we removed that. So size equals 5,000. So it should sell. Let's try it. Should sell. Should open a position. OK, it just took the whole thing. And then it finished. And now it's going to wait 10 seconds and it's going to close. Let's make sure I'm in the position. Yes, I'm in a short position here. And then 600 only took 600 this time. Because that's what was on the ask, go to. And then 600 again. We still have 3,800 left. The remaining balance. What? So let's order history, active positions. I think order history, market, rejected. Why would it be rejected? Oh, because it's zero. No, no, failed. Size is 3,6. Why would it be so big? 3,6,021. So let's see what that closer going. What's going on there? 3,6,021. So if position size is asked big, bigger than position size, then big, big, big position size. And it tried to make order of 36 and big, bigger than position size than big, big, big, eagles position size. And this should get the new liquidity every time through. It goes through. Let's see if she's in my TE. Cannot cover estimated order of loss. Insufficient funds. Yeah, because it's trying to make order of 36,000. Okay, so that was $8,000. And then how would I... Well, it did the first two correctly, it seemed. And then just don't see. So it said 600. Okay, let's just go through this, like we are, I can do it. So it goes through and it gets the position info, gets the size of the position. And the size equals position size. So it goes, it gets the data, asks the liquidity. And then if the big liquidity is bigger than size, then it will be the equal size. So it went through twice and grabbed the big liquidity in the main big order. And then position size equals position info, two, and it got that, it got the size, our position size, and it did ask, if it gets the liquidity, and then it did make the bigger than position size, then it would be the size, and it did make, did make which should be position size. And then, ask lick, would be position size, and the size equals position size. And then it goes back up here, it gets the big lick, and the ask lick again, but it already got it there. It doesn't get it again, but it loops through here again, while position size is really zero. I don't know, it's tricky for me. So let's go ahead and just try it again. Let's put a pause there. Hope I'm not losing too much on this one, $7. Pause for a little longer. Let's see if we can get out of this position. So the size is 3,800 on it, click it out immediately. Okay, so finish, lay. All right, well, maybe it works? I think it should work. I feel like I need a test this again. I'm gonna do that. So let's go ahead and do the same test. I think I'm probably chewing myself up here with these. So I'm gonna make the position size a little smaller, just do 500. And let's do a solid again, and let's see 10 seconds in between. Well, it's week 30 seconds just to give it a chance to go on our favor. So we're gonna buy some orders, we're gonna make some buys. I don't know why we were gonna make themselves, for short. And I just did it all on one. Now it's finished. Now it's gonna sleep the 30 seconds. Margin $1.22, down 3% already. That's cool. So that's how bad like, he's just, maybe expecting a high leverage. What the, it just put in an order of 20,000. And now 8,800. So what's it doing? Okay, I got a stop to it before I start. I'm realizing, you know, that's dope. Okay, so what is it doing here? There's the question. It's getting the, it might just run in the wrong one. Big sniper clothes. Big sniper clothes. I guess the position in both position size, the position size, the position size. And then, you get this. So position size, it gets the bid ask, if the bid lake is bigger than the size, but where is size coming from? If bid lake is bigger than position size, then bid lake equals position size. And if ask lake is bigger than position size, then ask lake is size. Now while position size is over zero, oh, I see what it's going on. No, no, it's fine. Cell, we're going to cell. Oh, it could be this. Let's do a time dot seat before we make the orders. Let's say print position size. Okay. And just do the clothes. Oh, damn. Playing around on this, if this owl lives in a dollar. Okay, so the buy. How big is this position? It's a question of reason. Oh my God. I'm getting exposed. Just testing orders. I need a light for this one. This is no going on. Okay, so liquidity sniper. And so if it's buy. If position size is sell, then we have to buy that. But if it buy, then we sell that. That's right. Okay, maybe it was just the other thing that we fix. Okay. Just to run it. Just to run it. Just to run it. Just to run it. Just to run it. Just to run it. Just to run it. Just to run it. So you zero eight three. Okay, that's good. Okay, we're going to hit rocks a lot on this. Two one two one. That's good as well. 600. That's good. Okay, this looks like it's working now. It's taking another 600. That's all good. All right, so I think this works now. I think I'm just going to let this ride out. We just have a little configuration. But I'll go ahead and post this video as well. So now you have part two. So this part two. But we're going to use that. Hope you do it. Okay, wait, let me explain this. So now we've got open. The cleaning sniper and the clothes. Pass in the symbol. Open. Symbol. Size. Fireself. Two of us. Two of us. Two of us. It's by. It's falsies. It's so. And then the clothes it. You just do that. The cleaning clothes. And we just went through all the clothes. So I was just zoomed through it. Or a place. You see it? If you want to reverse screenshots or whatever. Appreciate your time today. And I look forward to seeing you. Next one. See ya. We're going to dive right in and build a beginner's trading bot that changed my life. Because once I built my first bot, I was able to start thinking of strategies and then just hand them off to my bot. And it would trade for me. Which removes all emotion. And I don't know about you. But for me, a motion gets in the way of my trading a lot. If I'm hand trading, even a strategy that is good with legit edge. Well, if I'm supposed to exit at one point, it's sometimes hard to exit. For example, if you're looking at this chart here. Let's say you go into a position. Let's say you go into a position right here. Let's say you go into a position right here. And it's a long position. Right? And you actually, you win. Like, it goes up on you. Well, it goes up 2%. And you're right here. And even on the exit, sometimes hard to close. Because when do you exit? Do you exit on this bar? Do you exit on this bar? Do you exit on this bar? Or do you get all the way up here with a nice, healthy 2% win? And then think it's going to go higher. And then it pulls back on you. Right? So it's quite tricky to control your emotions. Of course, you need a strategy with actual edge. A strategy that works. But how do you really know if your strategy works if you don't know how to automate it? If you knew how to automate it, well, guess what? Then you could back test it and see that, hey, that strategy's worked for the last five years, 10 years, 20 years. That's why trading bots and building trading algorithms have absolutely changed my life. Now, you don't have to have some fancy degree to do this. You don't have to have like, you don't have to go to school for computer science. I sure didn't go to school for computer science or math in order to be an outlawed trader. It's not just for super smart developers. And on top of that coding, it's really not that hard. Especially for building trading algorithms. Because it's pretty straightforward. You don't have to build like graphics and like, put it on the web. You just run it from your computer. So you just have to follow along and just watch. Even if you don't know how to code, like I'm going to literally build a bot here today with you because this is what I do every single day on this channel. Is I just invite you into my workroom. No matter what, every single day I'm building new bots or tweaking my old bots or building new functions in order to make my bots more profitable. And I came across, I've been trading a couple years back and there was just no information on it. There was no way to learn. And to me, a kid who grew up on the internet, loves. If I can't learn it on the internet, that's weird. So all I'm doing is letting you in over my shoulder while I build my bots. And if you have questions, I'm here for you. And let's just go ahead and start building it. The bot I want to build today is a supply and demand zone bot. So if we look at this one hour chart here, we can see like around here, ish. I wish I knew how to make the box here. I've seen it before and trading here. If you know how to make the little square instead of just a line, let me know. But around here, this is when price popped off, like a boom. Around here, this is where price drops off. So I would say this is kind of a supply zone if I make another line here. I really wish I knew how to make the square. Not too good with trading here, but I can make the lines at least. Right here, this would be like a demand zone and supply and demand zones are really based off of like winner. Winner the big money guys buy the banks, the hedge funds, the ones that have a lot of money. Well, they're usually buying in demand zones right here and that's why the price moves viciously. But then you can see this is a bit of a supply zone that turned into a demand zone. So, you know, I'm fairly new to the definition of supply and demand zone. I don't see too much of a difference from support and resistance, but the way I'm going to build this bot, and like I mentioned, you know, I'm not like a math genius or anything. I'm just a trader that knew I could automate some of my strategies. So, like, don't be worried if you don't know how to code at this point or you're not amazing at it. Anything in life just takes repetition. And for me, I knew I could improve my trading by just automating parts of it. Like, if I really wanted to exit a position, well, my bot's really going to exit because it's a computer. There's no emotion in there. And if I really want to enter at a specific point, well, if it's built into my bot, it's really going to enter. So, that's what I love about it. And that's why I really think this is changed my life. And it's one of those things that is going to allow me to trade automatically for the rest of my life because, you know, it took a little bit of time to learn it. But just like you watching this video, you just got to keep watching. Just keep watching, keep watching, even if it doesn't make sense. And eventually, it's going to make sense. Now, I was watching videos that weren't really about I'll go trading because there wasn't much information out there, but that's my duty. So, I'm essentially going to make a bot that tries to buy in these zones where price in the past has made big moves. So, right here, this looks like a pretty big move. Let's see if we can paint it. I think if I knew how to make that bot, I guess I could just Google it. Let's say that's a supply zone. No, that's a demand zone. That's a demand zone. So, if price ever gets down here, we won't be barred. Now, here, it looks like also a mini demand zone from what I can see. Now, feel free to correct me if I'm wrong, but this is the bot I'm going to build today. And that's the thing is there's no right or wrong in trading because especially I was trading. Sometimes you'll have the wrong definition of things and you'll build something and then you'll back test it and it's like, oh, that actually did really well. And that's awful for me. So, this looks like a little bit of a supply zone. As you can see, it made a big red bar. So, the way I'm defining it right now is I'm looking for these big bars. So, big red bar. So, I would call this supply zone because there's too much supply and there's so much. And then down here, a big green bar. So, this is a demand zone. But then look at this. This supply zone turns into demand zone. And down here, well, you can see if we scroll back to this one up here, you can see another big red bar around this bar. And a big red bar around this part. So, the way I'm going to build this is I'm just going to use these levels as either buyer cell levels, but you know, they can quickly turn into the opposite. For example, like if for here, this one right here, this looks like it's been a bit of a supply zone. But then once it broke through that supply zone, it turned into the demand zone. So, I want to identify, I'm going to write this out. Identify, supply and demand zones. And buy and supply, or the demand, and sell and supply. So, this is going to be a really cool bot because I can then use this function that we build in any of my bots. So, let's go ahead and just start building it. Now, even if you don't know how to code, don't worry about it. We will get there together. Let's go ahead here. And let's see what's going on. Go on a code here. Now, this code, I've just been working on a few different bots on the channel. They're all on the channel. But I'm just going to scroll through it really quickly so you can screen-shot it, whatever. This is the discord down there and a lot of them right. Feel free to ask any questions there, or over love. But take us some screen-chiles of this because I'm not going to go over it. These are imports that I've been using. These are the inputs. Not really all of them are going to be necessary. Inputs, more inputs. And then this is connecting to the exchange. This is super important. So, Femex, CCXT.femex, and enable the rate limit, API key. You can put your API key in here just like this. Like this, but I hit it because I can't be sharing it on YouTube. So, just so you get kind of what all the code is up for. Take your screen-chiles and code all that up if you need it. If you're following along in the code. But now I want to go ahead and you can see the aspect as well. You can probably use that. We'll probably use the position info. Let's make sure you get that real quick. But now you should be good to go. So, we were working on liquidity snake for the last time. I want to go ahead and say, let's supply demand zone. And let's go ahead and say print starting supply and demand zone calculation. Calculate shuns. And then let's just run it. Make sure everything is working fine. And let's put a time dot sleep here. Raise this up a bit. Close this up a bit. So, time dot sleep. And we're going to make it for like a bunch of time. So, it never goes past it. And let's just run that excuse me. I got a little cold. So, I apologize if I sniffled it up in your face like this. It's no problem. Okay, so starting supply and demand zone calculation. So, what do we do from here? Well, we have to get the information that we need from probably going to go ahead and. How do we want to do this? Let's go ahead and write this out first. So, get open high load, close volume data. I probably want to do it from Coinbase. Well, I'm already connected to the Femex. So, get open high load, close volume data. Okay, well, we actually have that data over here in nice functions. Let's see here. Let's close that. Don't say nice functions. November. Okay, so it's actually December now. So, let's go ahead and make a new folder for December. Let's say December 22. We're just going to keep going. We're going to keep going. So, well, I guess I'm already working in time November. I'm just going to keep going November, whatever. That doesn't matter too much. So, supply and demand zones. Let's see if we're already importing our nice function file. Nice function file. I've gone over in a ton of videos. So, you can just watch it in those other ones. They're just asking me below or just going whatever. In this file, we actually have our open high load, close volume data. So, I'm going to close some of this stuff just to get it out the way. Above we have the position info and the ask bit. We need the open high load, close volume with all our data. So, I think it's just like a git df function here. So, here's the ask bit dfsma. Okay, let's use this one. So, we need to pass in all this stuff. Then, I'll just go here and say, and, because I imported this, and, and got, whatever this is. There, dfsma. dfsma. And then we need to pass in all this symbol, time frame. Let's call sd for supply demand time. And then, sd limit. So, supply demand's own limit. And then, sma, sd, sma. Okay, so, let's go here and make all of these. I can delete this, no? So, these are the things I have to pass in. And so, let's do that. So, let's say, the time frame, sd time frame, sd time equals. What do we want the time frame to be? Well, let's do it up to one hour. That sounds nice. Let's do sd limit, and let's do that. Do it 200. Well, maybe we should do it for the four hour, then. It probably will give us a little more definitive. It'll give us more information. Let's see how long this is. Like, this whole little diagram I built here, I want to see how long this. 21 days. Dang. So, 21 days. 21 days. I could have done this one ahead. Times four hours is 84. So, but what is 21 days times 24 hours? 21 times 24. 524. So, if we did that hourly, we wouldn't be able to get all of your back there because we only have 200 bars. So, let's do the 200 limit. But what's 200? Okay, we're going to do four hours. Just more data, you know? Then the SMA will do, we'll just do the 20 SMA somewhere in between. Okay, so let's go ahead and say this, the S, the S equals that. And then let's print the S. And we'll put this at the top. Okay, so we've got two hours. We're running a function that says print that, we'll say it's applying the man, we're pressing these little things. And we're going to print the D. So, if it's a bunch of good information, perfect. Let's open this up a bit so we can actually see it. Alright, so we have the open all the way to 1029. So that's like two months of data. That's really good. And if we wanted to change this, we could change it to, oh, that's what we should do for sure. So what I'm thinking is, what if we wanted like 15 minute data? Well, we would change it right here. But I think there's a better way to do this. And we could do time frame. Let's take this, put it right there for now. And what I'm going to do is, because if I want to do this on like the 15 minute time frame with different SMAs and all that good stuff, then I can do it. Oh, maybe I should just do this though and always get max and always get the 20 SMA. Because I don't, I don't foresee having to change that too much. So I'm going to put the this stuff in there. And you know, this is super easy to change. And then I'm going to say SD time equals SD time. And essentially, this is going to, so right now if I run it, it should give me the four hour time frame. See this? 4, 8, 12, 16, 20? Okay, but what's this? Now if I say, I want the one minute time frame. Beautiful. I love coding. Look at this. 12, 8, 9, 10, and so on and so on. Alright, so that's great. So by default, this gets the... By default, it gets the four hour, but can pass in any time frame. That's pretty nice, right? So we can pass in any time frame. No problem, huh? And now that we have this information, let's just pass in the regular, the four hour, and let's see what we can do with it. I think there's support and resistance on here too. Look at this. Support and resistance. So... How do we want to go ahead and do this? Okay, so this is the four hour support. This is the four hour resistance across the last, this many days. So we might want to go ahead and say, hey, we want... So I want the four hour. I want the one hour. I want the one day. I want the 15 minute. That should cover it, right? The four hour, one hour, one day, 15 hour. I could do like five or one minutes too, but I don't really want to play around in those waters right now. So how would we go ahead and get all of these? So let's say, DF. So we might not even need to pass this in, but we'll see. As D time, I might just go ahead and say copy here. Let's see. There might be a better way to do this, but... Yeah, then for sure it's a better way to do this. Let's just make a times, time friends equal. Let's say, 15 minutes, one hour. And that wasn't correct. Four, it's just a age, not a H-R, four hour, and then one day. And with this information, we can then just loop this. Do we want to make a loop though? Because if we loop it, just thinking it's through. And I apologize. Sometimes I do have to think things through because I'm actually coding this live and thinking it through live. Hopefully this is helpful for you. Let me know if it is helpful for you to hear my thought process. Because the way I look at it is, you know, I could just code here every day. And build these bots. And, you know, if they do well, that's awesome for me. But like, it's way better if I, you know, I don't know how many people watch this. You're watching this. If I could help you. And like, one thing that I do, like, changes your bot forever, that is so awesome. Right? I'd spend a few hours in the day coding. And I could do that just all alone and just help myself. But if I code here, then I might be able to help you. Hopefully. No, we don't. I'm going to skip doing this. I'll just keep doing this for a couple of years. But eventually, you know, it's... I don't know. I'm not going to stop running. That's for sure. But let me know if you have any questions. You know, I'm here to help. So, I appreciate you. So, my thought here is, I could do through this. But when I look through it, then it's a little harder to get the information that we need. So, I think I'm just going to run it. And, you know, it might be a little spaghetti code. Oh, well. I'm just going to say this. Let's do it as the time. Let's say the 15-minute. And then we can just do this for each. And I'll say, DF, 15-minute. That's better, right? And then I'll just do the same thing, but for all of them. So, 15-minute, I want the one hour. So, this is called as 1h. And then do a little copy pasting. And then let's call this one 4 hour. And the reason I'm doing this is because I want to make sure to have supply, resistance, support, resistance for all of these. And then based off of this support, resistance for all of these different timeframes, I can play around and figure out what is a real supply zone, what is a demand zone, where the prices are actually moving heavy and so on and so on. So, let's call this one one day. So, I'm calling this function that we built four times. And just to make sure, oh, I got my dough shared today, don't click on that. I got to make sure not to click on that. So, you can see 15 minutes and it's calling the 15-minute. SD limits, 200, SD, SMAs 20, symbols the same for all of them. And this one's one hour, one hour, this one's, and then one hour print, and four hour, four hour, and then one day, one day. Okay, so this should be good to go. And then after this, I want to figure out where price moves big up or down, and create supply and demand zones. And then we want to output, supply and demand zones. Well, I guess the correct word is that return, supply and demand zones. Okay, so I think we're pretty good to go here. Let's go ahead and run this, see if it works before I get a little too confident, you know? I'm not even using this anymore. I think I'm going to delete it for now. I think this looks good, let's run it. Should get four. Okay, that's one, two, three, four. Perfect. Okay, so, you can see here that this one's the daily, because it's five, it goes back 200 days. So we can see, it's open, the high, the low, the low, and then here is the, what is this? This is a four hour, and we have all the data that we need. And just to make sure you have this function, because I know sometimes I fly through things, this is a DFSMA, just quick screenshot. If you want to, if you need this, looky-looking, looky-looking, scrolling down, looky-looking, all right, you got it. So I've just had some comments in the past saying, I don't cover some data and my bad. But I put it all on my YouTube, this YouTube is like all of my work for the last year. And so it's just like a lot of stuff here. We have everything we need, though. I think we are good to go, and this is a good place to, you know, one of my thesis is my DSI, however you want to say it, is, you know, the reason I'm automated training, I'm not automated, I'm making all my strategies automated is because I'm a human. And I got a drink coffee, I got drink water, I got an easy restroom, and all that good stuff. But my bot doesn't have to, so the idea behind this bot is, okay, well, you can trade off the supply and demand zones for me, which I would probably be doing if I was hand-trading, but like I said, I'm going to trade and change my life. And this is one of the reasons why, because now I could, if I have something to do right now, like I have a call, I got to go to gym, I got to eat, well, guess what, my bot can keep trading. So I think this is a good place to go do some of those things that I have to do as a human. And I'll come back with next part of this video where we'll figure out where the supply and demand zones are. Now that we have all the data, we've got the support and resistance, which are pretty close to supply and demand zones. But now we have to formulate, how do these different data sets combine into a supply and demand zone? And do we need more? Do we need less? Do I need to put the one minute in? Do I need to put the five minute in? Maybe. But I'll have to do that in the next video, because I got to get paid. In this video, I want to talk to you a bit about what I would do if I was still a hand trader. And this is exactly what I would do, and it absolutely changed my life. It's pretty simple. When you're a hand trader, let's for example, talk about if you're trading off support and resistance or supply and demand zones. Well, something like this might happen. You might buy in this demand zone right here, and it might go up. Right? And you might be waiting, waiting, waiting. And what happens here? Well, it goes down, you exit, and then guess what happens? It rips again. So now I know it's a winning trade, which is great. But what if a bot could kind of analyze and see, hey, well, this supply zone right here, or this supply zone, it's actually been a demand zone in the past. So we can see back here that when I come back, it looks like there's been some big movement in this zone here. And a bot might have been able to identify that. While a human, it's a little harder to do because you have all these emotions. Now, while that might not have been the best example because it was a profitable trade, what if you had an entry where you see this and let's go and zoom in. You see this, up, up, up, up, up. And you're like, oh, I need to get in. I need to get in. And then, boom, it goes down. Well, if you're a good trader, you would exit. But as a hand trader, there's this thing called emotions. And emotions will have you, maybe I need to stay, maybe I need to stay in, maybe I stay, stay, stay, stay. And then boom, I was right. Look at that. It went back up. I was correct. But then you just get smashed on an 11% drop. So the thing is with hand trading, there's a lot of randomness. And when you add in your emotions, what I used to be a hand trader, I would get emotional. And I would see, oh, Greenbar, you know, you want to buy more or you want to hold. If you're in a position right here, or you take your profits too quickly, dang, I should have held out right here all the way on this whole rip. But all these things are just emotional, emotional comments I'm making currently. Right? And the reason I would build a trade now rhythm, and I have started to do that last couple of years, and has absolutely changed my life, is for that. To remove one element from trading. Like, you're probably a pretty good trader. I know I'm a pretty good trader, but the only thing that gets in my way is my decision making and the heat of the moment. So being able to remove that part has made me a much, much better trader. So today we've been working on a supply and demand zone bot that looks for the supply and demand zones. And then we can implement that into a bot that will essentially look at those zones and either buy or sell depending on the movement of the market. So I kind of explained it here, you know, in the green here, this is a bit of a demand zone. As you can see, because there are big bars that happen after it goes into here, big green bars. So we can call it the man zone. As you can see here, a bit of a demand zone as well. And as you can see here, the big breaks fall off here in this bit of a supply zone. Now, the part that to be honest is a bit confusing to me, but that's okay. Is this right here, if this is a supply zone, it looks like it's also the man zone. Because we've big red bars, but we also have big green bars. So I think supply zones can turn into the man zones as well. Now, as you can tell, I may not be an expert at this, and I just want to reassure you that you don't need to have a Harvard degree. You don't need to be a super smart mathematician in order to do outwardly trading and to automate your trading. And that's exactly what I would do if I was still hand trading. I would automate everything because it removes the emotion. But you don't need to be a genius because at the end of the day, even if I have a concept incorrect, I'm going to back test it before it runs. So as a hand trader, it's pretty hard to back test. You have to know how to build algorithms in order to back test. Sure, there's some platforms out there, but if you're using a platform, rest assured that everybody else is using that platform too. So what I've found, even when I'm not a total expert in trading system or strategy, I try to learn as much as possible. And then I will back test what I know and what I figured out. And it will tell me if it's profitable or not. And then I can learn some more and read some more papers and see, you know, okay, maybe I need to make this week or that week. And then I put it into the back tester and guess what? It tells me if profitable or not. And this constant iteration of testing, tweaking, trying different ideas, oops, I might have tried that idea incorrectly, but guess what? The back test looked good. You can't compete with that. As a trader, as a hand trader, you spend your time looking at the screen, like looking for opportunities to enter, but guess what happens? Tomorrow, other than what you learned yesterday, that's not really going to benefit you. But for me, the alpha is, hey, if I put four hours into coding algorithms today, that's going to help me for the rest of my life. And that's why I switched to poly-hour-rhythmic trading. And let's just keep building the supply and demand zone bot here. And I'll quickly go through the code so you don't have to go find the other video. But let's go ahead and do that. Let me go ahead and bring this over. And we'll quickly go through what we've done thus far. And you can see here, at the top of this page, I've just been working on this file for a while here on YouTube. So a lot of the videos, or all the videos that are, all the code is on this YouTube channel. I'm pausing here so you can take a screenshot. These are the imports and whatnot. Port CCXT, math, pandas. These are the inputs that I've used so far. Be quick, take a screenshot if you need it. This is connecting to the exchange. So only difference for yours is you could just have your keys and secrets like this without all of this. Don't share a config. I'm just on a video, so I can't share that. And then ask, we haven't used that yet in this, but you might need it. So I just try to get away all my code because this is the best way for you to save time. And the way I look at it is if I can, if I can code, build my bots, it's awesome. Number one. But then if I can show you something along the way, that's extra awesome. So let's just dive back into it. Essentially we've gotten the data frames for the 15 minute, the one hour, the four hour, the one day. And we got that from our nice functions file. And let's just print this out to see where we're at now. You can see in the bottom right, this is my discord if you do walk to. You're part of that. There should be a link below. Start supply and demand sounds. Okay, so we just got all of the data here. We can see we have all these data frames. And this data frame is on the daily, as you can see, 515, 516. This one here is on the four hour for clock, eight o'clock, 12 o'clock. This one right here is on the one hour, one, seven, eight, nine. This one is on the 15 minute. I'm starting to think though we're going to need to have more data. Because why not have all of the supply and demand sounds. So what I'm going to do is actually make another one, another two. And those are going to be the one minute and the five minute. So I'm just changing these things super easy to do because I've already said something in my nice function file. I'll briefly go over there because I want to be considerate of maybe you didn't see the last of them. So this is the function here. Take screen time. If you need it, use it your own risk. Boom, boom. You got it. So now we should have six different data frames that print out. Okay, I just did it just five minutes, 15 minutes. I didn't do that. And we just think about what are we going to do? I think we'll grab the resistance from all of them. So I'm going to get the support and resistance from all of them. So let's go ahead and say here, get support and resistance. And how are we going to do that? Well, it's just the last one of the file of the output. So in order to get the last one, it's negative one something. So the F, negative one. Oh, what's going on here? Two-mayor quest, chill. Let's do this now. I'm not asleep. Two seconds. No, I don't get the one thing. I don't have time for that. One second. Just to throttle this a bit. Okay, so now it's going to time by sleep that one second. And this should get all of the support and resistance. Nice and fine. And then we want to go ahead and get the support and resistance for each of them. Which is super easy to do. And I'll start doing it now. So for the one minute, I want to say the support and resistance is support one minute equals the F one minute dot i law. And it'd be the negative one position, but for the support and then resistance one minute equals the F the F. The one minute dot i law, negative one. And then this would be where it's resistance super simple. And then I'm going to say print. This is support for what we want to call this. And this is resistance. Okay, so let's just pop these in here. Support and resistance. Before I do it for all the others, I want to make sure it works. So let's go ahead and run this again. Yeah, I saw it. I did indeed do that. So let's go see if it actually worked. This is the support for the one minute 16891. And you can see that's the number right here. Open this up. We see support resistance. So this is the support. And this is the resistance on the one minute. So let's go ahead and do the same thing. But for all the other ones. Is there an easier way to do this? Let's think about it. I didn't even think it was. Because I'm actually doing this live. And I do it every single day with you. All right, so the easiest way to do this. I think I'm just going to do it the simplest way to think about it. I'm not going to get rid of these. I'm not going to get rid of the prints. I'm going to do this one for the first time. 15 minutes. 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15, 15. Okay, let's do this one. The one hour, one hour. Go ahead and copy this. Paste. Paste. All right, so we got for the one hour. Now we got to do it for the four hour. Get rid of this for now. Let's do the four hour here. So we're just going to change the one support. Four. Four. That's pretty good. So once we do this, then we're going to do the one day. And we're going to have all the data we need in order to make the supply and the manzoes. At least our first rendition of them. So let's go ahead and paste this in. Let's call this one one day. Last one was for our double check-in. And I might have made a mistake somewhere, probably. Usually do, but that's the great thing is we can fix it. One day. One day. And one day. Okay, so now let's run this. And we should have the support and resistance for all of them. So this is my support resistance. Perfect. This is my support resistance. That's a support resistance. That could be the time I'll sleep on the other side of them. Okay, so for the daily, this is support. This is resistance. For the four hours, this is support. This is resistance. I'm just looking to make sure it matches up here. And it looks like it does, as it should. Okay, we can't make any errors except here. It's on the five minutes. Why did they come up before? Well, I don't think that's a big problem, but it's just a little bit busy. Okay, that's fine, because I printed it. I love coding because it just does what you tell it to do. So if there's an error on your side, it's probably your fault. It's a humbling experience. Okay. Now we have a support and resistance for all of the other good stuff. Let's go ahead and support and resistance versus supply and demand. I just want to read about this because to me, now what is the difference between those concepts of support and resistance? Are levels or lines in which prices were already determined while supply and demand are fresh levels or zones in which price are not determined? Okay, so... Oh, that's what I want to do. I want to get the wicks. So those are the zones. I like this. So what I'm thinking is support and resistance is nice. But I want to see how did I calculate those support and resistance? Because in reality, I want to get where the wicks are on the support and resistance. So... Supply and demand is where the wicks are. Okay, so look at this. The difference here, these are support and resistance. You can see the line. Let me just go ahead and get this from here. So my lines are... So these are the support right here. For example, and it looks like I actually do this kind of correctly, incorrectly. Whatever you want to say, nothing is correct in this game. It's just not how it backtests. So that's why I kind of mentioned, you ought to be a genius for this stuff. You just got to do it. A lot of people don't do this because they... I think they have to have some sort of a degree or something. But at the end of the day, if you have a four-year degree, and I just coded for four years, different outlets and backtests them, I'm probably going to be way, way further. Because you're studying all this type of stuff. It's actually your edge to not be saying in school you want to live. Okay. And they probably don't teach all this. But anyway, so this is a support for example. But then I would argue that this, where the wicks are, is the actual demand zone. So let me know if you know how to make the box here on... with training here. It would be super nice to have... like the square. Because then I could really print this out. But the support resistance is really off of the clothes. And then the demand zone would be off the wicks. In my opinion, the way I've learned it. I guess that. None of this really matters. It doesn't matter. But it's... it's up for interpretation. So supply the demand zone. So get the... That's what I want to do now. So the wicks. And what are the wicks? The wicks are... the highs... and the lows. Okay. So the wicks are the highs and the lows. So we know that... Now let's look at our functions. Because... Okay. Perfect. These are also the closets. So what I want to do... is change absolutely everything. Now I'm just going to... So... These are based off of the closets. That's the support and resistance. You can see this is the data frame function that we're pulling from. And... Now we want to go ahead... and now that we have the support and resistance, which is going to be helpful. Because that tells us when to start... like, hey, Bob, listen up. It's time to make a move here. Or it's getting closed. So it'll be like a trigger point. It'll be like, hey, we're getting close to entering whether long or short. We're getting close to the supply of the manzones. And next, we need to enter on the wicks. So in reality, we want to go ahead and say... I might just add it here to this nice function. So I'll be honest. So this is a different folder. No, I think I'm going to do it here just because this is what we're doing. So we have this support and this... What data do we have? We have the open eyes and close. So we have the eyes and the love. So... I would say the supply zone... or the demand zone... the demand zone... is between... between the... res... I support... and... support on love. And I'll explain that just because... to me that I need to walk it through. Okay, so all of our support and resistance are based off of the clothes right now. So open this up. So for example, it's like off of these clothes bars. So... what I'm trying to say is... the demand zone is going to be between these two. Like here and the love. So let me put another bar here. And this is what I'm interpreting as the demand zone. It's the support which is based off of the clothes. And then if for example we had another support off of the love. So what I'm going to do is add a support love. Because this data here, this support here... is based off of the clothes price. And the clothes price you can see with the body. So it's this first orange line. Let me just make it... this color. That it's based off of... this is our support. And all of our calculations. The one hour, one minute, five minutes, and all that. But this would be a second support line based off of the love. And then I would say this right here is the supply zone. The demand zone. The demand zone. Because you can see the price after a week in there. It grabbed all this demand. And then boom, to go. So that's my interpretation and that's how I'm building it. So we'll see if I can just back this later. So I think this is probably a good place. To take a little break. You know, that's kind of my thesis here as Word Humans. And we can't just sit here and code all day. We can't trade all day. We can't share screens all day. I'm going to get some water. Maybe use the restroom. But guess what? We're building a lot that can trade all day. 24, 7, 3, 65. And this has absolutely changed my life. So I'm happy you're here with me. And if you have any questions, let me know. What I look at this is if I just code every day. I can code for four hours. But if I code and I put it on YouTube, then that four hours can help you take four hours and turn it into one hour. And then maybe another person will watch it too. So maybe I'll have two people watching it. And that turns into eight hours. And then 12 hours. And then it's on and it's on. So if you enjoy this, please let me know if you have any questions. And I'm just going to catch you in the next video. Really regret not automating my trading years and years before. Let me tell you why. Because when I started to automate my trading, it removed the biggest disadvantage that I had with trading. And that was me, my emotion. Because when things go up, you want to buy. Like for example, right here, you see up, up, up, up. Okay, well, you want to buy, right? And as a human being, I personally have emotions. I don't know about you. But when it goes up, up, up, up, up. Oh, you want to buy, you want to buy? And then guess what? Boom. Racked. Depending on if you're using leverage or not, you can call that right. Now, it's not a huge move and fully a 2% move. So maybe it will keep going up. But at the end of the day, that's not a good time to enter any type of trade. In reality, I would actually want to enter right here if I wanted to get in, you know, like up, consolidation. Boom. And in actual reality, I just want to enter it down here or down here. So that's why it's tricky. Because as a human, you see this big green bar. Even if you enter right here, it's like, boom, we want. But then it pulls back and now we're back at the start. Now, the reason I regret it not automated my trading much, much before is because the entry and the exit of any trade. I feel like it's two different trades, right? You have to be good enough to control your emotions on the entry. Make sure to enter at the place you actually want to enter. Not while you're in the heat of the moment and saying, oh, I don't care about this time. Now, I'm just going to enter on this green bar. Right? You can throw your emotions there. But then on top of that, you have to control your emotions on the exit. So, for example, if I got in here and I was able to enter at the right place and I take a long, well, long it up. And I have to make sure to either exit here at the top or dulling my emotions getting away. Because if, for example, I wanted to keep it longer, well, I wouldn't miss this if I exit it down here. So, the reason I regret not automated my strategy before is simply because the strategies, if there's edge in the strategy, then as long as you execute things, when you're supposed to execute, enter when you enter. Exit when you're supposed to exit. Then the strategy will continue to have that edge. But there is the element of being a human. There's number one emotion. But number two is, like, you're not in front of the computer all day, right? And maybe some people are. But I don't think it's a bet that I want to take because if you know anything about probability, out of a thousand trades, there's going to be a time that I have to get up at the wrong time. I have to go do something at the wrong time. And that can change everything. Now, opposed to the new way and was absolutely changed my life is automating my straight name. Because the strategies I have that have edge, now I can almost guarantee, now nothing's a guarantee. I'm always going to be that black swan. I can almost guarantee that that strategy will work because I can now, as an automated trader, back test it, right? I can back test and see exactly what was the draw now. What was the sharp ratio? So I'll never go back. I'll never go back to hand trade. And that's for sure. And what I want to do in this video is build a bot that trades based off supply and demands on. You can see some drawings here. Actually been working on this for a couple of videos now. And I'm just going to dive right into it. Essentially supply zone up here, demands on down here. And we're at the point where, you know, this is resistance or support right here. And then down here is the WIC. And the way I'm building this is the demand zone is going to be based off of between the close and the WIC. So that's where we are in the code. I'll make sure to briefly go over the code. I'm just going to be really quick. So if you need this code, then, you know, screenshot it. Boom. Take that. Take that. We are going to go all this in the other videos. Ask Bid. Take that. And then this is what we've done on the supply and demand zone so far. Boom. Boom. Should be enough time for you to screenshot. If needed, just want to make sure that like, hey, this, this, use hours I put in, maybe they can help you as well. I don't take go use this code to trade or anything. But the way I look at it is I can build this by myself or I can build it on YouTube and guess what happens. If I build it on YouTube, maybe it helps you. And then my hours of work, my four hours of coding can then turn into multiple hours. So now that we have all this data, let's run it and make sure that it's still working. Okay, so this is the data frame. See the support and resistance. And now what I want to go ahead and do is simply. I think I want to make a support for the low and resistance of the high. Now I'm going to add that to each data frame. And I'm just going to do it here for the one minute first. So I'm going to add a time dot sleep here. Time dot sleep. And I'm going to put it a bunch of seconds. And put that time dot sleep here. Okay, so the definition that I came up with for the supplies on and the man's own is right here. Let's bring this up here so we can all see it and I'll read it just in case it's too small. Supplying the man is where the wicks of support and resistance are. So we have support and resistance. But like for example, here you can see the clothes is there. So this would be like support. But then down here, there's a wick. And I want to be buying if I'm going to buy. I would be wanting to be buying on those wicks. Same with over here. I want to be buying on the wicks. So that's the difference. Not the difference. Here, I'll just print it out. In order to do that. It's between the clothes resistance support and the low support. Because right now it's all based off of the clothes. So what I want to do now, the man's own is between the support and the support if there was a support on low. So essentially I want to go ahead and figure out this nice folks file. How did I make the support? I'm going to copy this over. And let's paste it in there. Let's do support low. Resist high. And then we would take this SMA here. The one minute SMA. And essentially I'm saying let's make a support low. And let's get the last two bars and get what is this? This would be negative two onwards. Let's print this out. It's not negative two onwards, but I want to get this just to see what's going on here. DFSMA and support low. And then I'm going to do the same thing here for this. Change that. Change this. Change clothes. I actually want. I want the love. I see I'm just getting... All of them up to negative two. So I'm getting all of the rows up to negative two. And I think I did that because it will get rid of a little bit of the newer data just in case it's like breaking out or something. And then this... So support low... Remember, the demand zone we're making in between the support on the clothes, which is up here. And then the support on the low, like if there was another demand zone. I mean if there was another support. And that... In between area is the demand zone. And we'll make the buys throughout there. So resistance high would be dear. And this would be off high. We want the high. And then I want to print that. Print... I want to print it. Support... I actually don't want to print that. I just want to print. No, let's print it. Do you have one minute resistance high? Okay. See what we get here? Key error of high. Oh, because it needs to be spelt differently. Okay, perfect. So this gets the support and the resistance. But I don't really need to print all of this. I can just say something like this. Support... I'm just going to copy this over. Well... This would be support low. Support low equals. We would do the above... The above DF, DF, one minute, where I lock. So the location is negative ones. So the last one. Because they're all the same. And then support low. Now I can delete this. And print... Support low. Okay. That looks pretty good to me. And now I'm going to do the same thing, but for the resistance high. So let's call this... Whatever we call it before, resistance high. And then paste that here. And then paste that here. So now it should print out the support low. And the resistance low. The resistance high. What I want to do actually is... Gosh, I need a sneeze. So much pressure. It's a sneeze. Okay. You cannot blow up your eardrums. So I'll make sure to step away if I need a sneeze. I got a little bit of a cold. Unfortunately. So this is the support low. And this is support. So the difference between support low and support. Just to reiterate is support low is based off of the low rise. And then support is based off of the close rise. And then I'm going to do something similar here. This is the resistance high. And I'll put that there. And I'll say up here the demand zone is between the two. Pretty easy. And the support, the supply zone, zone is between the two. So resistance high and resistance one minute. Oh my goodness. Resistance one minute. So this is the resistance high. This is the resistance. Supply zone is between the two. Okay. Let's see how this works. See if one gets a print of that. Okay, perfect. So this is the support low. 16885. And then 8889 is that close. So we want to buy between these two. In this case. Now this is the resistance high. 183. 17183. And this is the close. So ideally we, if we're going to sell, we'd sell between there. Dog. This is awesome. So now I want to go ahead and do this. But for all of them. Okay. So how do we do this for all of them? This was a lot. Well, it's not too much. Just doing some spaghetti code in here. I should just make this a function. I'll clean up the code later. But this works for now. How would I clean this up though? I'll just put this into a function. Yeah, I could do that. I'm just going to make a spaghetti. Paste it in here and say the five minute here. I guess I can just say five. Support low. Five. Support low. Just change it all up once. Oh dang. This needs to say one. We need some support low. One minute. So let me copy that over. There's this tie. Then I will add this here. And then add this here. Oh my goodness. I'm sick. I'm sick. This is not good. It's not good at all. I'm still doing this. Because every day the way I look at it is if I keep coding. My box gets better. I post the hand trading. It's like you might win. You might lose in a day. But the next day you don't really have anything to show for it. I mean, you have wins or losses. But with coding like every day, every hour, every minute, that you put it, that is then usable. Like we're building a support. Supply in demand. Don't bot right now. And guess what? For the rest of my life, I'm able to use this. With some tweaking. Support for a minute. Support five minutes. So now I'm just changing all these over to the five of it. I'm so sorry for sneezing. So up in your face, like the, I hope it's not too loud. I'm trying to walk away from the Michael nicely. So 15 minutes, let's change that to 15. So now we're just changing everything to the 15 minute, to the five minute. So we have all of these. And I know I can just move this. But what I like to do is I just, I just build in the easiest way for my mind. And then I can refactor the code lab. You feel me? Is there one hour here? One age? I'm gonna copy that because I don't want to type two polls, two more letters. I love coding because it's so much copy and basic. And like, anybody can do this. I think it's the mind that tells you you can't. Because it's hard to learn, maybe at the start, but you just put in your hours, you got this. So almost done here. So I'm just duplicated this code for all of them because I want this information for all of them. So now we're jumping to the four hour here. So let's just change the fours. Four. Four. Four. Four. And four. And then we just have the one day now. So let's do that. Let's change this to 1D. 1D. 1D. 1D. 1D. And 1D. Oh my goodness, I might have missed something though. Almost missed this whole row. Did I get it here? No, I didn't. Yeah, I got to change that. I knew that felt too fast for that one. Okay, so I'll double check all this. But this all shows 1 day, 1 day, 1 day, 1 day. This also shows 1 day, 1 day, 1 day, 1 day, 1 day, 1 day, 1 day, 1 day, 1 day, 1 day. This one shows 1 day. Oh, that's correct, 1 day, 1 day. This one shows 4 hours. It should show 4 hours. This four hours. 4 hours. Four hours. We're going to get something phenomenal from this. And this is 4 hours. 4 hours. 4 hours. This all looks good to me. What's this? 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour, 1 hour. Okay, that almost fit to me. This is 15 minutes, 15 minutes, 15 minutes, 15. 15, 15, 15, 15. 15, 15, 15. And then five minutes, five, five, five, five, five. Remember the five, five, five deals from Dominance? Gosh, that was good. Five, five, five, five, five, five. And that's five. And now we just need this one minute one. One minute, one minute, one minute, one minute, one, one, one. Okay, it looks like we're good to go. So I'm going to run it. And it should give me a bunch of data now. And you know what I'm going to do is, I don't think we need the data friends anymore. So I'm just going to remove all the data friends, because it puts a lot of data on the print. So let's just go through here and just remove all the data friends. Oh my goodness, we're doing print. We're not removing them. We're just not printing them anymore. Because if we don't print them, our outputs are going to look a lot nicer. Where are you at? Right here. Okay, now let's run it. See how this goes. So this is our support, perfect. I mean, try to make it look nicer, but I don't know. It looks that nice. But that's irrelevant. We don't really need it to look too nice. We can see here. And we're going to do this. We can see here. That the man zone is between these two prices on the minute. And the supply zone is between these two prices on the minute. For the five minute, it's bigger, right? For each iteration, I feel like for each time frame, it's going to be bigger. So this is the demand zone. The support low versus the support close. And that's 16885 versus 16930. And then same thing with the resistance. This is on the low versus the close. And the close is you can see. So this in my mind is perfect. We've got the supply and demand zones. And I'm so excited to put this into, I think the next step is putting this into a bot that can automatically trade this. I've got a ton of bots that I want to use this function for. So that's kind of what I try to do here. Build stuff that I actually need for the day. And this is something I need it. And I thought, hey, you know, my mind will just share it with the world. Because if I can help one person, you know, do something that took me hours to do, and they can do it in minutes, then that's super, super good, super boydough. You know? And that's why I do this. Because when I got started, this was super hard to learn. There's nothing on the internet. Nobody wants to share this information. I get it. You know, our alternatives, you know, you find something that works. You don't want to share it. But there's no reason I can't share at least some functions, like finding the supply and the hands off. So I'm just kind of overlooking this. So this would be the daily 15 427 between 15755 and the resistance. Okay, so this is on the daily. So 32,000. We haven't seen that price in a long time. DTC. I'll make sure to throw this code into the discord as well. But I think the next step is to make this, let's go ahead and write this down. Next step, dang, this is ugly. But we can clean it up, or you feel pretty clean enough as well. Next step equals build automated bot office and a new function. Return, supply, and demand zones per time frame. And obviously we should do this first. And I think that's what we're going to do. But you know, back to my whole thesis of why I should have automated my trading and I super, super regret not doing this years and years before is because we're humans. We have emotions, but there's another thing to it. We got to sleep, we got to eat, use the restroom. We have to do things like this. And one of those things is calling me right now. So I'm just going to chop this video here and I'll see you in the next one where we'll do these next parts. The truth about hand trading is that eventually you're going to have to miss an opportunity based off of being a human. What I'm trying to say is the probability of you having to get up and go to the restroom or get some water or go do something in your daily life and missing an entry or an exit is near 100%. Actually, I can say it is 100%. Because we're all humans. And automating trading has entirely changed my life because it changed the way I think about how to trade and it really just comes down to the strategy, right? When you automate your trading, now you don't have to worry about am I in front of the computer staring at the screen at the correct time to enter? Sure, you can set orders and stop losses and all that good stuff. But can you do it across every single symbol on every single time frame? And then the bigger question and I think we both know that is when you're a hand trader, your emotions tend to get in the way. Oh no, I should have actually did it there, but I got a little greedy or I got scared and I didn't enter. So the truth is, competing against robots which a lot of the market already is, there's no chance in winning over the long run. The probability is 100% that you're going to either miss an entry or an exit. And if you're using leverage, that exit could be a way of going to a network, but you're not going to be able to get a way of going to a network. So I'm not here to say how to trade, I'm not here to tell you a strategy. I'm just here to let you know the truth about hand trading. And once I removed hand trading out of my life, things got way better because instead of saying, and looking at this chart all day, and if you're in position, you're probably staring an extra hard. If you're out of position, you're waiting to get in, waiting for a chart to maybe dip into a demand zone to buy. Well, why not just have a computer do that? Right? I computers do everything. And the majority of trading is already done by computers, but I don't think the majority of traders are computers. That makes any sense. What I mean in here is, the people like myself and you that are automating their trading, there's not that many of them. But since we can automate our trading, well, we can trade way, way, way more, because we can trade every single symbol. We can look for opportunities 24, 7, 365. If you're a hand trader, maybe you'll get a couple of trades per day, looking at your scanners, all that good stuff. I don't know, maybe you're more aggressive. I'll say 10 trades, 20 trades, whatever. But if you are that hand trader and put that strategy into a robot, well, then it can look for opportunities across every single symbol. Every single time frame. Every single supplies on demand zone. So that's what we're building here today. We're identifying supply and demand zones, and then we're building it into an hour of them. I just want to let you know that I'm not like a super genius. I'm just a regular dude. I don't have a computer science degree. So if you've been holding back and waiting to get started, because you think you have to be super smart or a math degree here, a computer science degree, I will trade in is not just for super smart developers. I was just a trader that knew if I could at least automate something in my trade, it's going to be better. And from the start, just entering an accident on the limit over a time period with a bot, that improved my trade in immediately. Now, obviously I've come very far since then, and you can build any type of strategy, which is awesome. So anyways, this is my daily work. I got to build this. So I'm going to keep building it. And let's go ahead and let's do that. So let's keep this chart open here. And let's see where we're at. So we paused here. And essentially, we've already created the supply and demand zone. Now there is another video, but just in case you don't want to watch that video, here's all the code. Let's go to the very top, just so you can screenshot it if you want. Use it on your own risk, of course. Those are the imports, inputs, connection to the account, asking bid, which we haven't used yet. And then this is the supply and demand zone. Essentially, it gets the support for the close and the support for the low meaning the WIC pretty much. And we would call this the supply zone, demand zone. Sorry. Let's get this mixed up. Like for example, this pink line right here is on the close support. And then this other pink line is the WIC support. So in between, that's where we want to be buying, if we buy. Right here, right here. So I would sprinkle my orders right in here. So let's go ahead and do that map. This is all the code, just in case you need to see it. Make sure to go a little slower. Okay. Screenshot, one second. Screenshot, one second. Screenshot, one second. This is spaghetti-ish. I'll refactor it later. Make sure it lasts a second. Okay. So now the next step is to return the supply and demand zones per timeframe. So what is the best way to do that? Maybe make a data frame. Sorry. Sometimes I do need to think this through. So I'm going to make a SD supply and demand DIA. And then in that SDDIA, let's do a PDE that data frame. And then SDDIA, I want to just put in all of this stuff. So let's go ahead and do this one by one. And this data frame is going to be super important to me. So I just want to make sure to do it right. So I'm going to grab this. And this will be the one minute. Let's think about this for a second. So I think that, hmm, how should we do this? We need all of this information, but I don't want to return like 20 things. So I could just make it up here. Okay, that's probably smarter. Okay, that's one minute. So I'm going to put this up here. And it's going to make a new data frame. So it makes a new data frame right there. This is supply and demand zone data frame. So now that we have that, we made it earlier actually. Okay, now we want to go ahead and put this all together. So we have the data frame and now we want the, what do we want? We want the support and resistance. So maybe I can set it up like this. Support, what do I call this? Support on WIC. No. I need to write it out more or else I won't understand it. So support low is that. And then the support one minute is this. So if I did something like this, DF as D, DF equals, and then we'll save for the one minute. One minute equals that. I don't know what's going to happen here, but that's what's great about coding is I can just figure it out. S, D, D, F, time dot sleep. And essentially I'm trying to build a data frame with all of this information. So it's like that. I wonder if there's a way that I can put this one minute. So I got to think this one through, but essentially I'm trying to get all the data in there. So that's the one minute support. Let's just call that one minute support. Supply. And it will be between these two numbers. So let's run that again. The supply zone is going to be between this number and this number on the one minute. And then the one minute demand zone would be. Let's copy this over so they're all in the same place. SD, D, F, one minute demand. I'm going to make this a little bit. A little bit smaller. S, Z, supply zone. And this will be D, Z. And I should make it all lower case. And then this would equal. This and essentially I'm getting the one minute high. Verse the resistance one minute. And then I can print out. Print SD. And then let's put a time.sleep. So we don't go past it. Let's see what happens here. Oh, sorry, one minute supply zone. Okay, perfect. So the supply zone is between these two numbers. And the demand zone is between these two numbers. Now I'm wondering, is this the best way to do this? I don't know. I'm not sure if this is the best way to do this, but what happens a lot of times? I'll just do it this way. And if it works, it works. And if it doesn't, I can change it later. So let's do that. I'm going to go ahead and copy all this. Copy. And then I'm going to delete this. Because now we have it for the one minute. Now we want it for the five. And demand zone, demand zone ranges. So row zero is the low. Row one is the high. And the supply demand zone is in between. The two. And I'm actually going to put this up here as well in my notes notes. Data frame with supply and demand zones for, we won't call this for each time. For each. Now let's put that here. So now we're going to go and we're going to keep on moving. Now I have it for the one minute. So let's make this a little smaller. And then here, I can duplicate this. And we already did a lot of this work, which is nice. I just need to change this to five. Five. Five. And five. This is why I love coding so much. So it'll be a lot to be doing. And okay, so we have that. And let's do this again. Now this is a 15 minute. So I just changed this to 15. 15. 15. And I know I can do this more elegantly, but I don't really care right now because this is just to get the concept down. And then we can change it later. So one hour. One hour. One hour. One hour. And then the next one is going to be four hours. So I'll just change all these supports. Four. Four. Four. Okay. And then this is the last one here. I wish I had like a two day chart of the group. So we'll change this to day. And day. And day. And day. And then day. And now I want to print this out at the end. So let's go ahead and say print that. Excuse me. I got a little bit of a cold. Print it. Let's see what happens. See if it works. Okay. Look at that. So we have all the man zone is between these two to supply for the one minute. The supply zones between these two for the one minute. Did I do that right though? Because this is a higher number. Oh, I guess they're all higher. Yeah, that's the makes sense. Did I do that right? Let's go ahead and check that out. Because this would be a supply zone. So the zero. What is the zero? I'm talking about this. The zero is. Row zero is not necessarily the low. Row zero is the. The close. And row one is the. The. Wick. Wick. Or. The high. Love. Does that make sense? Because. That's how we get the way. The way is in between the close. And the high love. So here. For example. Here's a good example. So this is the close, the body. And then the way is the low. So this is the difference. So we're getting here. So the difference is always between these two. So we have the one minute. Let's check against this day. They're here just to make sure. The demand zone between a five and nine. 85. 89. And the one minute supply zone. So this is between. One four four and one two nine. One four. One nine. And then let's just spot check. One more of these. See the four hour. Because if that's right, then they should all be right. Four hour is between four two seven. Seven one two. And then the supply zone is two one four seven zero. Two one four seven zero. Two one four three four. This looks really good to me. Now just this right here. This is like, imagine this. This is running all day long showing me where the supply and the demand zones are. As a hand trainer, I now have this information that I can use without even having to look at the chart. In my opinion, the chart is somewhat of a slot machine. So if I can just remove all the noise, I can see, okay, well, if I want to buy right now, like on the short time frame of a minute, I should probably buy within these two ranges. But I don't really want to compete with the bots. So I'm probably going to jump on over to the 15 minutes. And if I want to buy BTC, I would be buying it on the 15 minute in between or in the supply zone. Excuse me, the demand zone. So the DZ, I would try to buy within these two prices if that was like an intraday trade. But if it was like a more long term trade, I would be trying to buy within the four hour. And you can see the four hour and the one day are pretty similar. But this right here changes as a game because I can just have this run 24-7 and always have that data. So what I'm going to do here is I'm going to get rid of a bunch of these print statements because I think they're a little distracting at this point. And then we'll be able to let this run all day. And I can use this in my other bots. I built all types of bots here on this channel. And I'm going to use this for all of them pretty much. Not maybe not all of them, but this is another indicator essentially we built here together that nobody else has. Nobody has the exact code of this. Besides me and you. So return the supply and demand zone. That was our next step. Next step we want to build this into an automated bot. But I actually already have a bot that I want to use this for. But in order to build this into a bot, we just look at my other videos I think because it's already done. And we just use this as an indicator and say hey we want to buy when this happens or so when this happens. So I could do that here on this video. But let me think about this. We want to return. I'm going to try this actually return SDD. And now I can just call this. Whoa that is big. I can delete all of this stuff. I already did this. This is a DF where the zone is indicated per time frame. And the range is between 0 and 1. Ro0 and 1. So now we have this. And in order to build a bot off this I would just say as Z supply the demand zone bot. And the first thing I would do is I would get the supply and demand zones for all time frames. And that is pretty easy to do because I just do a tab right there. And now as Z bot gets me that and I would just say SDDF equals this. And I actually don't need to print it here anymore. So if I ran this it should show nothing. Right? Because I don't have any print statements. So let's see if it shows nothing. Starting supply and demand zone calculations. I must have a time to sleep somewhere. I do 1, 1. Oh the time to select that seems right here. So it just did it and it did nothing. So I don't have that print SDDF. Oh you know what though I should pass in the symbol. Just to be careful. So let's do that. Wow this is a long long function. And this is the type of stuff nobody shares on YouTube and I don't get it. Well I do get it. Like people don't want to share this because it's their alpha. So that's kind of like where I saw the opportunity is. No way I want to share this information. So why don't I share it? So let's see if it's prints. Okay there it is. Those are our supply and demand zones. So as a ham trader, like instead of me trying to build this bot out right now because I could build a bot where like I buy in the supply zone and demand zones. But I have all these bots on my channel that I would rather add this indicator into them and see where it performs best. So I hope you've enjoyed this series. And if you want me to make a bot specifically for buying in the supply and demand zones, I can probably do that pretty easily. And maybe I'll just go ahead and do that in the next video. So if you see the next video, that's what I'm doing. But like I said, I do this for, you know, this is my day to day. I'm not just making a YouTube video. This is me working and kind of laying you see what I do. So maybe my four hours a day of code can turn into, turn your four hours or however many hours you do. What I'm trying to say is if I do four hours of code and I can figure something out and I can turn those four hours to like 20 minutes to you, that's super, super helpful because I can help a bunch of people like yourself and me. And then we can all kind of like learn together and win together. And yeah, should be fun. So let me know below if you want me to turn this into a live bot. But for now it is, it is live and working. But for now what I want to do here is make this a signal for, because I know everybody is not manual through error. Some people are hand trading still, which I don't like to do. But let's say as Z bot and just paste it in some code so every 15 seconds, let's do every five seconds, run pending. And this just will run it forever. So let's try it and it should run it every five seconds. And this right here is a reason to automate trade it. Just because I'm able to see the supply and demand zones without noise. I don't have to look at a chart and it's just going every five seconds always up there then. Let's see if it works. Should be about five seconds. Okay, start these supply and demand zone calculation. There it is, supply and demand zone. Now it's going to wait five seconds and do it again. So in case things change. Like if I'm trading in on the one minute, I can always see if it's changing or if it's not. So every five seconds, about five seconds, starting supply and demand zone calculation. And this information is so useful because now in my bots, I can say, hey, I only want to buy in between the one hour supply and demand zone or the four hour supply and demand zone. And let's just do that really quickly. I just want to make sure that you have everything needed in order to get going. I think this is just a API limit error. So I'll let that run for a while. But I want to make sure that you have everything you need. So I think the one thing you might need to use this and then in correlation with all my other YouTube videos, like there's plenty of bots there to show. The one thing you might need is how do I pull this data? Like if I want the one hour supply, let's do that. I'm just going to show you one example. If I want the four hour supply zone, the four hour supply zone and demand zone. Well, it's pretty easy to do because we just brought in this D.F. Right here. You can see it pulled in a new one and then showed the error again. That's just because I'm calling to many times on the API and I don't have the right API settings to have that many calls. It's no problem at all. I would just recommend using the binding API. But anyways, if we want the four hour supply zone, I would just say S, D, D, and look up here because we have an example of it. And I can see here this is inside a panda. So let me just copy it. Let me remove that. As our users have an example, because that's what's great about code in my fingers. Like I don't have to think about how to do this over and over again. S, D, D, S, O, I would say as a supply zone for the four hour equals S, D, D, F, where it says this for our S, Z. And you can see, let's just print it out so we can go step by step as Z for our and let's see what it gives us. So I'm actually going to, I just wanted to show you how to run this all the time, but I'm not going to do that. Just put this in here and let's run it one time and then over and all the time. So it runs one time. Should get the supply and the man's own and then we're asking it to print out the four hour. And you can see this is what it prints out. So we want the range between those two. So if the negative one and zero. So negative one. And we should use I lock. Just thinking this through quickly. What's the most efficient way to do this? I think I'm just going to do it this way. So I'm going to say, as the supply zone for our open, not open, close. I'm just going to put a one because it's the same difference. So we would do as Z for our, no, as Z. Well, I guess we do four hour dot I law. Negative one. I don't know if that's going to work actually. Let's try print as Z for our one. And this should get the last one of this. Okay, there it is. But I think it needs to be the value dot value. Value? No, no, that's right. Too many requests? Okay. Pandas to get the value of the supply. So pretty good deal. I lock zero. Okay, I think we just did it right for now. And then as Z zero equals this. But we'll do it to zero in that. And then the print we want to print both of these. Let's pause that. Okay, so I'm going to do it. It seems to be a zero. And I think we're good to go. So this should print out the supply zone zero, supply zone one. And just to make this super clear. So this is for 70. And this is for 34. So that's the supply zone. And you can see for 70 for 34. It's between this. So if I were to sell. These two. And then the opposite is true for. The man's own. So the man's own is just this way. And this is like an easy way to say for our DZ. We'll close this for now. For the yellow me. And DZ. Change this to DZ. DZ. And just to make it super clear for you. I'm going to say print. F. If buying. Buy between here. And then we put it. The two. Excuse me. Sorry. I need to sniff one of your best. And. So if buying. I want to buy in between those two. Same thing as this. But this is supply zone. And this is the man's own. There we go. And then we'll write it out here. But essentially if we're selling. I would sell it between those two. You know, if I wanted to go base half the four-hour. But if buying. I would want to buy out those between these two. So now you can see how to implement this into your bot. If you wanted to do that. Now I'm going to use this function here that we created. I'm trending bots of marker makers. Got all types that can use this. And I look forward to it. I'm super excited. So let me know if you want to see another video on this series. But I think we did the main point, which was finding to supply in the man's own. And now it's up to your creativity on how you want to use them. And my mind's already churning. So I look forward to it. And I'll see you in the next one. Today we are building a crazy supply and demand trading bot. And thus far, trading bots in general have changed my life. And not in some corny way like I downloaded or I went to a website and I signed up for this crazy trading bot. No, I build them every single day. And don't worry, you don't have to be like super smart computer engine. Or go to school, Harvard, or study math for years and years on end. If you figured out how to trade, you can figure out how to build trading algorithms. And automate any strategy that you do have. And that's why I do here on this channel. I just build my trading algos, my trading bots every single day. And I let you see over the shoulder because I'm just a regular dude just like you. And it's really not that hard. So today I'm going to be buying or building a supply and demand zone trading bot. So we've been working on this a little bit. And essentially we've built out a lot of it where it identifies the supply and demand zones. And today we're going to go ahead and turn that indicator that we've built into a bot. They will actually buy and sell. So I have my account hold up here. The next we'll do it on there. We'll do it with Yif. And let's just dive into it. And like I said, if you haven't coded before, don't worry about it. Just stick around and watch this whole video because that's how I learn too. You know, I was trying to learn how to albo trade and automate my trading strategy. Because I had a good one. But emotions were getting the way, right? When you're supposed to buy, you get scared and you don't actually buy. When you just want to sell, you have hope and you just don't sell. That happens. We're humans. You know? So my mission was, hey, let's build this into automated strategy. So I don't have to worry about the emotions. And when I went out to search how to do this, it was just nowhere on the internet. So I'm here to build out goes for myself every single day. But I invite you to watch over my shoulders. So hopefully my four hours a day of coding can help you out as well. So let's just dive into it. I think we have a good overview. If you know what supply and demand zone trading is, then that's awesome. If you don't, we have a little description here. We're pretty much trying to buy the wicks before a big green bar. Or the sell the wicks before a big red bar. And we kind of made these supply and demand zones. And let's just look at what we've built thus far. And then we can kind of work on it. Let me make this a little smaller. You can see my discord here. People were sharing pretty cool strategies. Shout out to them. Let's go ahead and hit play. And we can see the code that we've built so far. So it says starting supply and demand zone calculations. And it's going to do it for this symbol, which is E. And it takes a few seconds. But you can see the one minute demand zone is between these two numbers. The five minute demand zone is between 1265 and 1268 on Ethereum. The 15 minute demand zone is between 1257 and 1261. So that's where you want to be buying. And then the opposite for supply zones. That's where you want to be selling. So now I'm going to use these indicators in order to build a bot. So now that you saw that, let me just make sure to scroll through the code. So you can see it if you'd like instead of watching all the other videos. But go ahead and watch the other videos if you want to walk through. I'm going to pull this open just so you can screenshot it. If you need it, of course, don't run this in production without testing. Screenshot boom. Here's the inputs. This is connecting to the exchange. This is getting the asking bid. We haven't used that yet. But probably going to use it here. And then the getting the supply and demand zone. This is, I've made it pretty ugly to be honest. But I'll just show you here. So if you don't want to go back to the other video. But I'll put this all on the playlist so you can see all of it. Some spaghetti code and some like to say. You know, I could have made some loops. And I probably will refactor this later. But it's going to have the same output. And then this is the bot right here. So as Zbot, and this gets the supply and demand zones. So above gets the supply and demand zones. This is the bot we kind of started. And what I want to do actually is, I want to take this and make a new file. Because I just feel like cleaning it up a little bit would be nice. Let's go ahead and call this. S supply doesn't end zone dot p y. And let's just paste that in. And of course, there's a bunch of stuff I need to import now. And essentially, I'm going to import this over here. So I'm going to import this file, which is called risk helper. So import risk helper as r. And then I'll say r dot boom. Now that works. But what is the symbol? Well, the symbol we want to trade with is eFUSD. And there's a bunch of other imports. I want to just steal from here because that's the great thing about coding is you don't have to worry about too much. Rewriting of things just paste it in copy paste. So boom, those are my imports. And I just want to build this bot out in order to trade for me. So what else do we need? We have the eFUSD. We're connected to the exchange. Let's go ahead and pull up our exchange here. You can see here is the max I use. And I need to connect to the exchange. So let's go ahead and grab that connection here. And that connection I'll just put right here. And you could put your connection like this with your key right there and your secret like that. And just delete all of this. But I am on video so I can't share that with you unfortunately. Gotta keep those keys and secrets very safe or all your phones can be withdrawn at any moment. Alright, so now that we're connected, let's go ahead and just run it to make sure it works. So I'm going to go down here and say as Z bar and then run it and see if this works from this new file. If it does, then we'll just keep it moving. It looks like it's working or at least it's starting. Okay, perfect. So the chance we should be buying between here and here. And that's based off of the daily, I believe. Well, 1071. The man's on. Yeah, must be going off the daily. Okay, there we go. I was wondering. Okay, so we have that working. And now we need to make it actually submit the buys themselves. So let's just do that. How do we want to go ahead and do that? Well, first things first, we need to input the size. And for now, let's just make the size 100 maybe? Let's see what that is. Let's bring this leverage. I don't usually use this high leverage, but just for this example, cost is that. Cost is $31. I'm down to do like a thousand. So it's $300 the cost. So the size is that. And then we're connected to the exchange correctly. What else do we need to do? Well, let's think about this for a second. So this gets the four hour here. And let's look at the supply and the man's arms. I think I want to do this on the 15 minute. Instead of the four hour. So if we go through this code, I'm grabbing that data frame and printing the data frame. But then in the data frame, I'm saying, hey, I want the four hour. So it gives me that information. And it says, this is a four hour supply zone in case I want to be fine. So what I can do here is change this or not change it. I'll just get both. Let's get the supply zone and the man's own. So I actually can just copy this over. Let me go ahead and just copy it. So as Z. Here we go. As the four hour, I would duplicate this. And let's get it for the 15 minute. 15 minute as the zone. So you see the whole. This is the whole data frame right here. But I just want the 15 minute. And you can only see the demands on right now, but it's in there. So I want the 15 minute demands on. And I'm going to buy at the 15 minute demands on. And that's going to be the bot. So it's going to the logic of the bot. Let's just type it out. Bot logic. And this can be changed, however, because I have the one minute supply zone, the five minute supply zone, the 15, the one hour, the four hour, the one day. So the logic can be whatever. But in this video for what I want to build today, I'm going to do it off of 15 minutes. Bot logic is buys, eith, USD on at the 15 minute supply zone. Sorry, it's the man zone. And sells at the 15 minute, DZ, the man zone. So that's pretty simple, right? Let me go ahead and put it there. And let's just do that. So now I can paste what I copied from above. Close that for now. And let's change this to as Z 15 minutes. And this would be 15 minute. And then this would also be 15 minutes. So let's just change all these. This would be 15 minutes. This would be 15 minutes. So this is pretty easy. And this is why I love coding. It's because once you do it, and if you want to see the whole walkthrough, like I have a playlist showing all of this, you know, it's been a few videos now, but this is how it works. But the cool thing is, or the rest of my life, I can use it. You know? All right. So let's go ahead and also print. Print. DZ 15 minute, zero. And DZ 15 minute, one. Okay. So now I think we have all the data we need in order to start making the bot. Bot. All right. Look at that. What is that come from? Print. And Zbot. Starting supply into Manzone. Hmm. Oh, I know what's going on. Over here, I actually have this running as a bot. Hey, that's a long ugly. I've got this going. So it's not how that. Well, it's run out again. Oh, you know what's going to happen? No, I have a bunch of other stuff in risk, however. So I need to turn off some of this stuff. Like I got this liquidity sniper that we built here together. I got to pause that. I got to do this because it actually brings in this whole file. You know what I might do actually is, I might just bring this over because this file is getting a little big. So let's go ahead and just bring this whole function over instead of having to call it from here. That's going to be nice. So as Zbot, what do we need? We need that. We actually just need this. So this function here, we need it. So I'm going to just bring it over to the new file instead of calling it because it gets a little messy sometimes. Okay, so now we have this function here, supply and demand zone function. I can remove this risk R thing and then I can also remove this in work here. Okay, now let's see how it does. Sorry, supply and demand zones. Which was great. Okay, there we go. So we have the data that we needed. This corresponds to this. This corresponds to that. And let's double check that. 15, it looks good to me. Let's make this a little bigger though. So I can actually see all of the rows. Okay, so we look at the 15 minute supply zone. And to me, that doesn't look correct. If we look at the bottom of the screen right here, 15 minutes of supply zone. Ah, look at this. I didn't change that for 15 minutes. This is a little four hour. This is why we test everything. Alright, so there we go. Now it should work. And I actually don't need the four hour printed out anymore. So grab it. And... Okay, this looks good to me. So we have the two numbers we want, which are... Let's run it back one more time. It's these numbers. Alright, so here we go. And these matchups. So 15 minute demand zone is this number. Manches that one. And this right here is that one. Perfect. And then 13, 11 is this one. And 1300 is that one. So now we just have to figure out what... Where do we bid and ask? And win. I would say if over the 20 SMA we are looking for logs. If under the 20 SMA we are looking for shorts. I mean, that's just like a good way to find the trend really quickly in my opinion. Is it the best way? It's not the best indicator. So no, probably not. But it's a simple way. So how do we find the trend? Well, let's go ahead and see... This gets the supply and demand zone. But what about... We have a function here in this nice func file that gets the DFSMA. So let's just use this. And this is again why I freaking love coding is because I built that like a long time ago. I hear on this channel as well. But I can just use it. So I can say end.df because I imported it. And then I'll pass in the symbol. And then the timeframe we want is what timeframe do we want? I would say the daily. I'm going to do the daily. No, I'm going to do the four hour. Be a little tighter with it. For hour. And then limit will be 200. And then SMA, let's get the 20 SMA. And this should be the DFSMA equals that. And then we can print the DFSMA so we can see what we're working with. But really, I need the last signal. So while I run this, I'm actually going to peak over here how to see how I did it. Here we go. And this will get the last signal. I've got to make some changes. I'm sorry if I'm running fast through this. But when you do this a lot, it gets easier. And it's just like anything else. And I'm just regular dude. I didn't go to school for that. So. Last SMA equals DFSMA dot i log in the negative one position. And then look at this data. We just pulled. It says the signal. If it says by, we're going to be in a by. So. What is that? Is this a signal? Yeah, it's a. So, sick like that. And then print last SMA. So instead of printing that DFSMA, I'm just going to print the last SMA. So instead of printing that DFSMA, I'm just going to print the last SMA. By okay, perfect. So. If let's say if sig if sig equals by. Let's say this is called sig. We can call that sig if sig equals by. Then. Print. Signals by. By we are going to place by orders at the 15 minute. It depends on. And then else. Notice do I left just in case sig equals. Cell. Print. Print this. But. 15 minutes. SMA. Right. I think that's good. So you know the cell. We're going to place. Cell orders. At the 15 minute supplies on. Okay. And then else. Print. We didn't get a by or a cell signal. Look into this. Because something went wrong. All right. Let's run this again. Make sure all this works. And then we can implement the buys in the cells. Signals by we're going to place by orders. Demands. Okay. Now we need to figure out where are we actually going to buy. And I should have kept that open. So. If. If. If it's a buy. We want to buy at the. If it's a buy. Buy. At the higher. Of demand. Zone. Buy number one. That's what we're going to do. Buy number one. At. Now I'm just going to do one by. I'm going to be easy on this. And. I think a lot of people are going to start by the demands on. So I'm just going to do one by. And just try to pick it up real quick. The reason I'm going to do that is because. I look at things like these wicks here. Now look. So this week. I don't know if you can see this, but. Just try to zoom in. This week. So this is a demand zone. And I want to make first buy here. And then second buy the average. So I think that's. That's how I'm going to run it. At least change it how you like. And you know, I wouldn't just follow some random dude on YouTube. I wouldn't run this. But without testing it myself. But you know, this is what I'm doing in the day. And I decided to just share with you. Because the way I look at it is. If I code, that's awesome. I can find profitable strategies. I can build my own bots. That's awesome. But at the end of the day, if I spend these four hours that I code every day. And I put like an hour or two on YouTube. Well, guess what happens? That saves you hours and hours of work to put it into your own strategy. And I think that's the key. Because that's why I don't believe in trading bots. Right? Like if trading bots online, you could buy for $29 a month. There's thousands of people using that. That strategy is going to go to zero. There's no way it's going to work. You've got to have your own unique strategy. But the cool thing is, is I can share things like the supply of the demand zone. And then you can put it into your own strategy. And if it works well, well, maybe you'll share it with us here in Discord. Or you'll just be successful. You don't have to share it, of course. But it's just cool because it's like powerful, right? Because now my four hours of coding is way more impactful than just for me. All right. So if it's a buy, and then if it's a sell, opposite for as well. If it's a sell, sell number one at the lower. And number two at average. Because remember, we got two signals for each. Not signals, but two numbers for each. This and this. So let's first say, okay, we want to buy. So I'm going to grab this. And I'm going to say, min of that. So min of that equals buy one. And then buy two equals equals that again. But the day does, about two. And let's print those out just to make sure they look good. Okay. I'm not going to make any buys. Takes a minute to pull the DS and the data and organize the data and all that good stuff. If you're an optimization type of person. Let me know how to optimize it. I know I can definitely refactor some stuff. But this one's not really a high speed one. I don't know what happened here. To be honest, let's try again. Because that's a new one to me. Can't get network error. Oh, am I offline? Shoot. Yeah, I'm off the internet right now. Dang it. Okay, well, my internet just went down. It's no good. It's no good at all. Okay, well, I think we did enough for this video. And what I'll do is I'll just make another part to this. If you've been following along in the series. Let me know if you have any questions below. But the next part of this video, we're going to do this. And I'm just going to put a two-do here. Just wait for my internet to come back up. And when it's back, I will do that. So this is the island life problems, you know. So I'll catch you on the beach and stuff. All right, so today we're going to build a supply and demand zone bot. And this is exactly what I would do if I were going to build one. Well, actually, I am going to build one. And this is my day that they work. So luckily, I'm sharing this with you. So you can watch over my shoulder and learn exactly how to do this. So if you don't know the supply and demand zone bot is. It's essentially a trading algorithm that will buy in the demand zone and sell in the supply zone. We're in video, I don't know, six or seven of this series. But I'm going to go over all the code really quickly so you can see. Where we're at. And then we can keep on moving. My internet actually went out in the last video. But this is where we are. So we have these imports here. We've connected the Fimex. If you want to take screenshots. And we have this function here. And it gets the supply and demand zones. It's pretty long and ugly, but I can refactor it later. I'll make sure to go slow so you can screenshot it if you need it. Or feel free to use it. And essentially we're at the point where we're generating the actual orders now. So from here, if I scroll down, here's another function here. This is where we're actually creating the orders. And we're all the way down here. So essentially what we're doing is we're making the buy number one at the higher demand zones. So we have the supply and demand zones goes based off of two different points of resistance. One on the close and one on the width. So pretty much the ultimate low. And you can see I print them out right here. But before that, I went ahead and I said, let's go ahead and grab the minimum of the two. Now that I'm thinking about it. It should be the maximum. Since there's two, if we go ahead and look at this chart here, there's two prices that we're getting. And the first one, if you can see this pink line right here, that's on the close. And then it's on the bottom of the width. So the ultimate low. And we want to go ahead and make the first buy at pretty much the pretty low. We want to go ahead and make the first buy at pretty much the pretty much at the support. And then the second buy halfway between because this whole thing is considered the demand zone in my book at least. And everybody's definitions a little bit different, but that's fine. That's how I'm going to build it here. So that's by one and by two. And then what we're going to do here is we're going to do the same thing. And then it's going to be the minimum of these. And these are what are they? They are the scroll up here. The minimum of the supply zones. So we have two supply zones. And I can just run this really quickly so you can see what I'm talking about. In case you weren't watching the last videos. So I set it up. It starts calculating the supply and the demand zone. And then we get these two numbers here. I can see I have an error. That's because I didn't put an addition there. But that's fine. Okay, so let's go ahead and fix that error real quick. Buy two equals that. And then the minimum of this, these two numbers here, is cell one and then cell two equals that. But remember let's add it instead of divide it. And then divide it by two. Sorry, add it instead of just comma it. So now we have the, we can print cell one and cell two. So from here what we're going to do is we're going to just put the orders in. So if, if in position equals false, then we'll actually do the orders. But if we're in position array, we're not going to do the orders. Else, print, we are already in position. It's like that. So we need to get in position now and thankfully I have a handy dandy helper here. And I can just go ahead and copy this over. So that's the ask, vid, I'll probably need that as well. No, actually I don't think I will because I have predetermined prices. But here we can grab this function. And I'll slow down so you can see it. Let me get it in there first. Okay, so this is a function that tells me if I'm in position or not, position info, I pass them the symbol. And it outputs the side, the size. So 0, 1, 2 at this two position, I'll go ahead and just copy this. At the two position is going to show me the size. So if size is over 0, then position is true. So let's go ahead and say this and then say 0, 1, 2. So size equals position info and then passing the symbol. And then it's at the two index. So that's the size. Now if size is bigger than 0 in position equals true. And I think it should be equal to false automatically. But let's go ahead and print just in case print in position. It's actually not going to do it because I don't have that set up yet. So let's just put in position as false. But then if size in position equals false. Now if size is over 0, then it will say in position is true. And if in position is false, then it's going to start doing the bias. Now obviously we have implemented that yet. Okay, so it's false. So we will do the bias. Now how do we make the bias? Well, it's pretty easy to do. Let's go ahead and say we would want to cancel all orders. Dmx.cancelallorders and then passing the symbol. And then we would actually do that for, well, let's just do it here. And let's say themix.createLimitByorder. And then we pass in the symbol. We pass in the size. We pass in the by one. We pass in. What else do we pass in? I think that's the actually. And then we would also for the order of second order, we would say themix.createLimitByorder. And then symbol, I guess I could just copy paste of that, but work on my typing skills, as you can see. They're not that good. Symbol. And then let's go ahead and say print just created the two by orders. Sleeping. Five minutes. End time.Sleep. And then we can do the same thing, but the opposite for if it's a cell. So, phynex.cell. CreateLimitCell order. CreateLimitCell order. And size equals that. So, we do cell one. And cell two. And then we want to go ahead and have this risk helper here. Probably we could put a P&L close in there. So, in case we want to close based off of P&L, we can do that. Let's go ahead and see what's going on here though. Let's see if it works. I think I am comfortable in running this. The size is fine. And it shouldn't fill because the orders are quite low. But let's go over to phynex where it will execute. Contract. And here we go. So, we should see some orders come through here. You see open positions. There's none. Now let's hit play. And see what happens. Starting supply and demand on calculation. And the order should be around here, is that what's that? Quantity too small. Hmm. T equal to T small. Interesting. So, there's an order history of size of zero. Interesting. Rejected. Okay, so I made an error somewhere. The size equals... Oh, haha. Funny funny. Let's see what we did up here, what do we call it? Size again. So I had size up there, but I reset the size. So I want to go ahead and say position size on this one. Position size. All right, that should work now. Let's keep an eye over here on the exchange, make sure it works. I don't know what's going on with the terminal right now. Looks super weird. Okay, perfect. It made the orders. So I can see the active orders now. E-T-S-D. You see where they are? Oh, they're way down here. But I guess that's the demand zone. So, now, that's super chill. What do we want to do now? I mean, I think we probably want to have some risk monitors in here. So, let's do that. Let's go over to the risk helper. See what we have. Well, let's look at P&L closed. See if we have a P&L closed on this nice phone. Funks. P&L closed. Fetch positions. I think this might actually be good. So, let's use this one. Here, I'll make sure you can see it just in case. Boom. Boom. Boom. I'm giving a lot of code away. So, it's like hours and hours. But that's a whole thesis behind all this. If I can just... If I can code and help myself, that's awesome. So, might as well. It's not going to hurt me. I'm sure you might be trading against me using my locks. But I think that we're all going to have different strategies in the end. So, let's go back here. And if in position equals true, then where's I checking P&L closed? And I'll say n. Let's see what it says. Okay. n.p&L closed. And then we pass in the symbol, the target, and the max locks. So, whatever our target at max locks is. So, we don't have either of those. So, let's go ahead and make them. Let's go up here to the top. And size, max locks target. So, like this target, let's say we're going for a... 15% and then max locks of 7%. You know, those can be whatever. Let's put that in there for now. Uh-oh. My internet may have gone down again. As you can see, we're having some trouble maintaining the Phoenix live feed. That is unfortunate. This is island life for you. And it happens... It happens a lot today, unfortunately. So, I think that's going to be a good... Let's go ahead and just see... So, we have the position in front. I'm going to close that for now. We have the supply and demand zones close that for now. This is the actual bot. And we'll go here and look. And position looks good. And now we're going to run the PNL close. So, essentially, we're going to run the bot. If there's already an open position, then we're going to check the PNL close. And the PNL close pretty much says, hey, if we put our target of... 15% or max loss of 7%, then it's going to close our position. And I can just double check that real quick. Inside the PNL close, you can see here... Kill switch. It triggers our kill switch. So, the PNL close triggers the kill switch. And I've gone over that so many times here on the YouTube videos that you should be able to find it. Otherwise, just asking the discord. There's a link for that. Okay, my internet is down. So, this isn't going to work anymore. It's not going to run. But there is one more thing I want to do that is... super important. And that is... to run this 24-7. So, let's look at this bot here. Maybe I'll have... Yes, I do. I want to run this every five seconds. So, let's go back to the SDZ bot. And say this... While true... So, every five seconds... We'll run that bot... as Z bot. And every five seconds, we run it. Let's see if I can get access to this internet again. Nope, it doesn't look like it. So, I don't think this is going to run. But let's try it. But I think this is pretty much done. Because the way I look at it is... It goes through... It looks like we're in position. If we're in position... It... It just looks like a P&O close. So, if it's running every five seconds... It's looping through. Checking the P&O close. It's seen if we hit our target... If we hit our max loss... If we hit either of those... Great, it closes it. And then it will regenerate a new... Buy or sell based on... If the signal shows buy... Remember the signal is based off of the 20 SMA... On the four hours. So, it prices above the 20 SMA. It's buying. If it's a below it, it's selling. And this is a really, really great bot. I'm excited to run this. I'll probably run some backtests as well. If you do want me to build a video on... Like how to backtest this? Let me know. I love backtests, you know, as well. Of course, before I spend any like... Real money on this, I always backtest. So, this is a pretty interesting bot. I think if there's going to be another video... It's going to be building this same bot... But for a different exchange... Maybe a spot exchange... Since it's built for Femex right now, as you can see... That is a contract exchange... So, you can use leverage and whatnot... This would probably be pretty good for a spot as well. So, theoretically, this will run one time... And then it will run every five seconds... And if there's a problem... It will say maybe an internet problem. Maybe I'll just delete this... And let's just see... It should fail... Because there's an internet problem, I believe. So, give it five seconds... And then it's going to say... I think there's an internet problem. Perfect. So, this is what you get for the Milano Island... But you also get a nice beach. So, in the next video... I will answer any questions I see below... Or maybe make another video connecting this to another exchange... Like Coinbase or something... But yeah, this is pretty cool... We built a supply and demand zone... Trading bot that can be used... By myself... You know? And so I do. I build them for myself... And hopefully they can help you as well... And it will spark an idea... And you can share ideas in our discord... Or any questions you have... I'm here for you... And I hope you're wonderful there. Hey, hey, in this video... We are going to build a Coinbase automated supply and demand zone trading bot. So, what is a automated supply and demand zone trading bot? Well, supply and demand zone trading is a strategy... Of pretty much trying to buy... Where the banks are buying and selling. Now, I know there's not a lot of banks inside of crypto... But there are some... And there are hedge funds that replicate the same type of buy... Now, you see these big green bars... After these weeks... This is like a demand zone right here... So, we've been working on this series for a bit... But even if you don't know how to code... Don't worry about it... Just stick around... Watch this full video... Because over time... You know, you're going to understand it... And it's not any harder than anything else... I'm a regular dude... I did not know how to code... And I knew if I could remove my emotions from trading... Then I could trade way, way better... So that's why I set out on the mission to learn how to code... But this was a few years back... And nobody was teaching this stuff... And people still don't really teach this stuff... Because it is kind of a secretive industry... For obvious reasons... Once you find a strategy that works for you... And your building outgones... Well, you can kind of just let those outgones run... And do really well for you... So my goal here is to... Number one... I'm just coding every day... Building new outgones for myself... But I thought... Hey, what if I could share this with the world... Than anything that you're trying to build... Well, maybe one of my videos can help you... Or if you're on the edge of trying to figure out... If you want to be an automated trader... And you don't know if it's right for you... Let me tell you... If you're a trader... You should be automated... At least some of your trades... So... Supply and demand tone... We're going to build that out today... We've already built the indicators... This is part of a series... But I'll go over all the code here with you... So you don't have to go watch the whole full series... But if you do... There's a playlist for it... And I'll link that below... But like I said... You don't have to be a special... Like crazy... Smart person to do this... I'm just a regular dude as well... So... Let's go ahead here... And I've already started... To import these things... Let's go ahead and look at the left side of the screen... This is where we're going to be building... And this bot we're going to be building today... I'll explain it at the top here... And just so we're both clear on it... Essentially it's going to look for... Using coinbase... Coinbase... This bot is going to... Buy... In the demand zone... And... Since we can't short... It's going to just sell... And it's... Going to sell... In the supply zone... So only if we're in position of course... And... It'll have a stop loss... A stop loss of... A dipping under... The... Let's say the 40... 40 SMA... On the 4 hour... So pretty simple bot to build... And I'm excited to build that with you here today... Now I have two screens open because we were building this bot... Fairly similar to this on T-next earlier... And that's a contract's platform... So this is a spot platform coinbase pro at least... I'm going to... You can see all these imports I've already made... And feel free to... I would use the same ones... Or a combination of your own... If you want to put your keys in... You can put them in like this... I just have to hide them because I am on video right now... And at least one person is going to watch this video... You, right? So... I can fetch balance so I know I am connected... Let me go ahead and just print that... Just to double check I'm connected... And then we can just fly through this bot... Because I actually need this to be done... Okay, perfect... So it's video on my balance... That means we're good to go... And what I want to do is bring in some of these things... I want to go ahead and say the symbol... Ethereum USD... I'm actually going to do MADIC... Because it's a less expensive crypto right now... And since I only have like a thousand in my coinbase account... I would like to at least be able to buy a thousand of them... And the target... This would be our profit target... I can probably build that into this as well... I don't know if we're going to do the profit target... This actually should be negative... So Max loss is negative instead of positive... So if you're watching the rest of the series... On my few next account... That was an error... But that's okay... That's how it goes... You got to test things out... So let's go ahead and... First I want to pull in... Hmm... What do I want to do here? I think we want to get the position info... Hmm... Let's see if we can figure it out... Because this is built for a few max... So it's going to be a bit different... And a little tricky... Because... We are going to... Okay, let's see if this works... So here's a big function for you... Position info... This grabs position info from Fimex... But I don't know if it is going to do it for Coinbase... Because things are different... So let's go ahead and just try it... Say position... Info... Info... And it's probably not going to work... We're going to need some to begin... And the pass in the symbol here... This indices... Hmm... How should we do this? This is going to be a little different... Let's go ahead and say CBFBALIS open positions... And let's print open positions... Because on Coinbase... There's not really open positions... Right? You have spot... And on Fimex there are open positions... So... Because it's a margin type account... So this indices open positions info data... Must be integers or slices, must strings... So let's go ahead and say print balance... Balance here... And put that time down sleep... Above it... Okay... Okay, so there are print balance... I think that's a lot... So it shows a totally different... I don't really want to rewrite this right now... So I think I'm going to do this a different way... You just think this through... Because this is actually what I need to do right now... I think the first thing I'm going to do is... I'm going to handle the... Getting the supplies on... So to get the supplies on... Supply and demand zones... I'm actually going to go ahead and pull here from this file... I'm going to grab this long... function... And maybe I can get it from this file actually... Now that's the file work... Is it? Yeah it is... So I have another file here... Nice function... I think it's risk helper... Yup... And risk helper has this function that we built here on YouTube... It's supply and demand zones... So what I'm going to do is... I'm going to import... Import... Risk helper as R... And then let's say... Let's say this... Let's say Deathbot... Let's go ahead and call end. Or what did I say? R. Supply demand zones... Yup... And then pass in the symbol... And this should get the supply and demand zones for... Matic... And then I also am going to need a Coinbase symbol... Because this Coinbase symbol is different... So I'm going to say... I think it's Matic... USD like that... And let's grab this supply and demand zones... And... What did we do over... In this bot... When we grab this supply and demand zones... We said SDDF... So essentially I'm going to say this is a data frame... Because this function... Pints out a data frame... And if you want to still full function... Just watch the last video... But you can watch this one first... Let's print SDDF... And then let's run the bot... Let's see if we get the supply and demand zones... For that this bot... Okay perfect... Supply and demand zones... Now it looks like I have some other thing going on here... So I actually want to bring in this whole function... And this will actually give me an opportunity to go over it with you... Just so... You know, if you want to use it... You don't have to go watch the other video... You guys stick around... You want to click off... You want to go to the other video too... It's probably going to be super informative if you want to see the thought process behind this... Okay so let's go through this... It's a big spaghetti code... I know, I need to refactor it... And I'll do that later... But this is supply and demand zones... For the symbol that we put in... And... I'm not going to explain it here but I'll give you time to screenshot it... So there you go... There you go... There you go... Gotta be quick... Gotta be quick, gotta be quick, gotta be quick... Okay so now you see the whole function... Perfect... So now that we've seen the whole function... What I want to do... Is I actually need to... Also import themax because... We're actually getting the supply and demand zones from there... At least in this function... So let's do that right here... Like that... Now I have imported themax... And... Well I guess we weren't getting this supply and demand zones from there... Sweet, I don't need that... We were getting it from a different file... All types of files here... So... Once we have this information... Let's scroll down here... And see what's going on... So let's just get supply and demand zones from there... So I can delete the R... And now let's run the R... Let's run the block and see what happens... It should give us the supply and demand zones for... That it... Dang, what's going on? Oh it's because I'm importing this file still... How about that? Here's a second... Here's a second... It's an old old man... There we go... Supplying to demand zones... Now we have the supply and demand zones for... Formatic... So you can see... The demand zones at 0.89... 0.89 for the 15 minute... So that could be a good place to buy... Or on the 5 minute it's 0.90... 0.90... 0.9061 and 0.9090... So on the 1 minute it's 0.9166... And what's it at right now? This is not a discord if you do want to be a part of that... It should be a link below... Let's go ahead and see... Okay, it's at 9.3.5... So these supply and demand zones look pretty good to me... And what I want to do now is... Close this up because I know it's a big function... I can actually just look over here to the right side... And kind of copy what I was doing earlier for Phoenix... But it is going to be a little different because they're different exchanges... And that's why I wanted to make sure to make this video... Because... I suppose they port gay... Because... The last one is good for contract trading... And this one's going to be better for spot trading... In my opinion... And not only my opinion but I need this... So like I said, you know I just build... I just show you what I'm building for the day... And... Hopefully it helps you at least like things something through... So that's the 4 hour demand zone right there... Let's get the 15 minute demand zone as well... So I just pull in all this information... It's pretty much just taking this data frame that you can see below... And taking pieces of it... I think I'm also going to do the 5 minute... So... We have the 15 minute... Now let's also get the 5 minute... And I have to decide where do I want to enter it... So this one will just be delete all the... All the ones... Because we're turning it into the 5 minute... And you can see the corresponding name is right here... 5 minute... 5 minute... 5 minute... Now it's 1 minute... Now it's 5 minutes... Oops... 5... 5... And then if I really wanted to get aggressive on this trend... I would have to buy it the 1 minute demand zone... Because I'm looking at the price on my other computer right now... So... I don't know if I want to do that... But it might be helpful to have... So let's go ahead and just do the 1 minute as well... So this will just be changed to 1... All these need to be changed to 1... All the 5 is to 1... 1 minute... 1 minute... 1 minute... 1 minute... 1 minute... 1 minute... 1 minute... So I love your code in this... You can just copy your paste link... Okay... So let's run this again... And see what happens now... It should print out more information... About the 5 minute... 1 minute... 1 minute... 1 minute... 1 minute... Perfect. So this is the 1 minute range... And you can see that here... I just put it in a better format so I can grab it... This is the... 5 minute... What is this though? This is the 5 minute range... This is the 5 minute... Okay... Just check to make sure all these are ready for hour, 15 minutes... 15 minutes... 5... 5 minute... And 1 minute... So these two... should correlate to the... Oh, I see what's going on... These two correlate to the 1 minute... The manzo... And then this is the supply zone... This right here is the... 5 minute... The manzo... And 5 minute... Now the manzo... In between these two numbers... And the supply zone's in between these two numbers... That's why there's two for each... And then this... Is the 15 minute... Perfect... So now I just need to figure out which one I want to buy at... But first, look at this over here on the right... I can just copy this... Because this gets me the... DFSMA... So it tells me if we're above or below... Look at this... I'm going to copy... I love coding... And I'm just copying and pasting a lot of stuff... But the reason I had to make this video is because I get a lot of people asking me like... What about like supply exchanges... So now at the end of this... It should tell me... Are we above or below... The 4 hour simple moving average... If we're above it... The signal's going to be by... If we're below it... The signal's going to be so... So let's run this again... Perfect... It says buy... Okay... In that case... We should be buying... Now we just need to decide which one do we want to buy at... Okay... In that case... We should be buying... Now we just need to decide which one do we want to buy at... So we have to figure out how to get the R position... Of the symbol... So... Get symbol... Position... So that's going to be too hard... I have so much code here... That I've written so many times... I'm going to scroll up here and just play around with this a little bit... Because I think we can get fetch balance... So let's get balance here... Fetch balance... And... Maybe I can just say... Cb... Fetch balance... And then pass in the cb symbol... I don't know about that... So... But that's what's great about coding... And just copy paste... I'm not copy paste... But guess and check... I don't have too big legal to... To be wrong... Snap and go through all that again... Takes a minute... Okay, so no string like that... Okay perfect perfect... So that doesn't work... What I'm going to do is... I'm going to make a new function here... So we don't have to sit through that again... And... I'm going to call this... Death... Position... And we're just going to figure it out real quick... So balance equals that... Great balance... I don't think I need any programs... And... We'll just play around with this... And figure out how to get into the dictionary... And I can just look at this... It's like a cheat code... Oh, I'm going to run it... Get... Position... For the time... Sweet... And now this should give us the position... Perfect... And here... It's info... The unfortunate side of this is... Okay, there we go... So info... Let's go... Fetch position... Open position... Equals... Balance... Info... And then... I'm trying to read this right here... Currency... This is Dave's... And Dave's... And Dave's... And Dave's... And Dave's... And Dave's... And Dave's... This is data... So info... Let's try what currency says... And you know... I apologize sometimes I don't have the answer right away... But this is kind of like a code with me... So let's try that... And then... And then... And then... So let's try that... So key error... One... It says it needs to be a number... Let's see actually... I might have a... Coinbase... I might have a Coinbase example... I know I've built for Coinbase a lot... I know I've built for Coinbase a lot... I know I've built for Coinbase a lot... I know I've built for Coinbase a lot... So... So... So... So... So... So... So we get the balance... And then it says info... Let's try this info at the zero position... Let's just try info to what happens there... I'm actually not the best at reading dictionaries... But you know, we can't be good at everything... I'm just kidding... I'm not good at anything... But that's like to my point... You don't have to be a genius at this stuff... You just have to kind of guess and check... And everything's on good... So... The balance... And it says... Zero... There we go... And then... Three... Three... So we're an info... Oh my goodness, I'm a silly silly guy... I'm still printing that about us... Sorry, sorry, sorry... I was like, why is it not changing? Okay, so info... zero... And then... I think it is the info one... Kind of see one inch... And info... I don't even get to check that because I was messing around... Alright, so... Let's run this real quick... As you can see, I'm more of a pro with Femex... But sometimes I like to trade with spot... So ID... We begin the ID... Let's go ahead and put this into a data print... So... Position... Dia... Equals... PD... That data print... That thromb dictionary... And then we'll just pass in the open positions... And let's print that position data print... See what that looks like? Probably look a little more pretty... Perfect... Currency... And then we'll say something like... Position size... Equals... Position Dia... That location... Where... That low position... Dia... Where the currency... Because that looks like the... Equals... Symbol... And it's going to be CB symbol... No, it's going to be short symbol... It's called that... Short symbol... And then the short symbol... We'll just put up here... I know this is janky but... Maddy... Just like that... And then... I want to go ahead and say print... Position... Size... Let's see if this works... Okay, so it got the... It got the column which is great... And this should be position Dia... I'm just looking over here at this column... Let's see what... Position size... Printed position size... That columns maybe... Let's see what the columns are... I can't see it all... Currency... Balance... So, balance... So, where the currency... Position cost where the currency... Equals... Short symbol... And then we'll say... Where the balance... Dot values... Here we go... I think we got it... So, this... Doesn't have a column anymore... And we can just say boom... And we can just say boom... Zero... I've got zero... Ish... Okay... So... We can then say... If... Position... Size... Is bigger than... See, 0.5... Print... No... I must say in position... In position... Equals... True... Else... In position... Equals false... And then let's return... A couple things... Return... Position size... And in position... Just like that... It's sweet... So now we have these two things... And... Position size... Let's go ahead and also print in position... Print... In position just to double check... And then I'll delete... Not delete, but... I will... Close that off... Okay... And then... I'll put... I'll make it a... Flow... Position... Size... Like that... See, what's going on over here... That I can pump in... ETH... Okay... Cool, cool... Somebody dropped a really good strategy in this quarter. So we made it a float so we can do the little thing... Oh, I didn't do this part though... But... Now that should work... So weird that it comes back as a string... Okay, in position was false... So position size is that... In position was false... And then... I can go ahead and give it a go... And let's see what else... We want to do here... So we get the position... I'll just go ahead and now I'll say... Symbol equals... Short symbol... Hmm... Alright, so what I'm going to do here... Is put this... Here... And... Now we can say... If we go back to here and look at our other body we're building... For the... The PMS... We can look at this code and just kind of... Adapt it... And you can see it... Takes a little bit of time to adapt code... So... So what I want to do here... Is... Now that we have this signal... I want to get the position... Position size... Well, let's get a position info... Equals... About this... Whatever this is all up here... Position... And then zero is position size and one is in position... So... Position info... Zero is the size I believe... Position... Sy... And then... Position... Dang it, forgot whatever... Up... In position... Equals... Position info... At one... Perfect... So now we'll say... If in position... Equals false... Equals false... And we're pretty much going to do this... And then... If... Say... Equals by... I'm just going to copy this over... Because I'm pretty sure this is going to work... Besides the like... A common theme next thing... But I'll change that... I need to change these to... Cv... Cv... Cv... Like that... Oh, we don't have to buy... And those aren't far too small to do either, right? Because I'm saying on a yoga wall... But it makes weird noise... In position... Position if signal equals cell... So we need to make a b-priced one, five prids too... And we need to decide... What we're going to do... We're going to do in a minute... 5 minutes... What is this thing next? Well, I'm just going to set it up as the 15... Because I feel like that's fairly conservative... So I'm just going to copy this over... Boom! This gets the max of the 15 minute one... And... The average of the 15 minute one... For demand zones... And for supply zones... What is that? So let's go ahead and just make this a little better... If... ...SZ... ...Time... ...E equals... 15... And we'll do that... I live... I live... ...SZ... ...Time equals... 5... We're going to change this a little bit... And make it the 5... We're going to change this to 5... Because we already set those up, remember? And then the 5... The 5... The 5... The 5... The 5... The 5... The 5... And then let's do one more... I live... ...SZ... ...Time equals 1... Then we'll put the 1 minute in there... And actually I'm going to copy this one... Because I can just delete the 5... This is the way... This is the way... This is the way... Oh, wrong one... Slow down, moon, slow down... Okay, there we go... Now we have to throw a Z time... As a variable... ...And... And... ...Now put it as a team for now, not for the 5... The time frame to make... ...Um... ...To... ...A sublime demand zone... ...There we go... I understand, now hopefully you guys will... Okay... You know what? I think this is quite a bit for one video... And you might be getting tired... So I want to make sure... I got to actually do some things as well... I'm going to finish this up in a few minutes... I just need to do something that... A human needs to do... But it's not number two... So I'll be back in a minute... But I'll just chop it off here... And I'll see you in the next one... Today I'm going to show you how to trade supply... ...Without steering at the screen all day... So I don't know about you... But it is pretty tiring to look at the screen all day... Look at these charts all day... So... Instead of doing that at one point in my life... I am just going to automate this... I don't know how to code... But I'm going to figure out how to code... So I make my strategy... And I'm just a regular dude... ...Regular trader... And I have a strategy that works well... ...Would do much much better... Because... When you remove emotions... Now you're not like worrying about like... Oh, should I buy, buy, buy on the screen bar... Or should I sell, sell, sell on this red bar? No... It's all built into your bot... And your bot just does the work for you... So... Automating strategies... And automating my trading has done wonders... ...for my performance... And in this video... I'm just going to show you how... How I'm going to build this supply and demand zone bot... So I don't have to stare at the screen all day... And I need to build this for myself... So... I'm just going to build it here... And you can watch... And hopefully you'll learn something... So we've been building that over the last few videos... This is part of a series... So I am going to make sure... To catch you up really quickly... I'm doing this with Coinbase... This is a brief description... But essentially we're going to buy in demand zone... And then we're going to sell... When it hits the supply zone... And we have stop loss of... If it cracks the 40 smm... Actually this has been changed... To the 20 smm... But I might change that again... So... Here you go... See the code... The imports... Get position here... This is a bigger one... So in this video... I made this function... And this whole bot work for Femix... But I get requested a lot to do it on a spot exchange... Like Coinbase... And I personally need to do this... So you see that... You see that... Supplying to me in zone code... It's pretty ugly and long... But I'll leave you text screenshots... Whatever you need to do... I'm not going to spend the all day going over this... Because I've already went over it in the other videos... It should be pretty easily accessible on my channel... But I do want to run you through this... Very quickly... And so you can at least screenshot it if you need it... Okay perfect... So now we're at the bot stage... And you can see I grabbed this supply in the man zone function... From above... I separated it out into 15 minutes... 5 minutes... 1 minute... And for hour... And then you can see here... I got the DF smm... 20... But I think I'm going to change this to 40... And there we go... Just change it... Super easy... And then here we left off where... Essentially we put it in the Z time... So meaning like... What supply in the man zone do we want to look at... I guess this should be SDZ time... But whatever... And this one's 15 minutes... If that's the case... We're going to use these by and cells... If it's 5 minutes... We're going to use these by and cells... And if it's 1 minute... We're going to use these by and cells... Now if imposition equals false... We'll actually make the by... And since this is Coinbase... And it's not on... Contract... Okay... We're going to say print... Signal is short... But we can't... Short... So doing nothing... Perfect... So let's take this through... If imposition is false... Then we'll make the by... Right? And I can actually test this out here... Let me go ahead and... See the size here... And size... We actually want to cut this... And I'm making 2 by orders... I want to cut the size... Size equals size divided by 2... So that will take our actual size up top... And divided by 2... Since we're making 2 by orders... And you actually can't see my Coinbase account... Because there's all my other computer here... But I think this might be ready to run... And... I just want to double check it... Signal equals by... And then we cancel all orders on... Coinbase... And then we create limit by orders... Size... Size by 1 by 2... And at the top... I've chosen to use the 5 minute... Let's see... Yeah, the 5 minute... As Z time... And... So that's going to correlate to here... Let's watch it work... And what I'll do is I'll say... Print... Order 1... Order 1... And then order 2... Just so we can have confirmation that it works... Because I can see it, but it'd be cool if you could see it too... So we'll just say print... Order 1... And then print... Order 2... Because... Let's try it... I actually only have it running down here... So let's see what it's called... I think it's called edzbot... No, it's just called bot... Perfect... So let's run it... And see if it makes the orders... I'm going to be watching my screen... You can watch the terminal... Right here... Starting supply into Manzone... So it takes a minute because it's calculating what... It's just buy... Okay, size reference before assignment... Size equals size 2... That makes sense... So let me just fix this... I'm going to call it total size... Or... Let's call this... I see what I did... I went up here and I said size again... I believe... No, I didn't... Size equals size... So let's say... Buy size... And we'll save 5 size... Right here... Let's try it again... So what I love about coding is... It's never the code that's wrong... It's you... It just says what you tell it to do... It just says what you tell it to do... It maybe I referenced it somewhere else as well... But we'll see about that... Okay, Coinbase does not have a symbol... Maddick USD... And that's because I didn't change this... CB symbol... CB symbol... Perfect... Now let's... Third time to charge my... Let's see it out... Okay, let's see... Okay, let's see... Takes a little minute to get all the calculations... Chop up the data frames... 5... Coinbase doesn't have a symbol... Maddick USD... You are a champion now... CB symbol... What's this say? This is Maddick USD, right? Look... Maddick USD... Let's try to cancel the order... With the old one... Again, it's not the code, it's me... It's pretty humbling... Too many requests now... Let's give it a minute to breathe... Because I've been running this a lot... And there's a lot to be pulled... Let's go ahead... And okay, I think that's enough time to breathe... 4x5 times the charge... Coinbase seems to have a tighter limit than the CNS... 5... Perfect... And it's placed two orders... And you can see... These are the orders... I can look into these... I know this is gross, hard to see... But it says size of 500 right there... Product Maddick USD... Side 5... So this bot works now... Now... I want to go ahead and make a safety guard here... Since we can't short, let's say... I left... In position... Oh, actually no, no, no, no... I want to do it here... So it's... Where did we say that? We're signal-ed... Okay, if signal is 5... If signal is 5... If signal is 5... We buy... If imposition is false... But at left... If imposition is true... So we are in position... Meaning we are holding... The... Maddick or whatever... We choose... Well... At left... In position... Then... We want to see... If signal... If signal is 6... Equals cell... I want to get out... Print... We are in position... And signal is 7... So, closing, selling. So, getting out. Perfect. So the reason I'm going to do this is essentially I said, hey, if it's under the 40 SMA, let's up this one, let's do the 41 SMA. If it's under that, if the current price is under the 41 SMA, then the signal is going to be sold. And I can delete this for now. Well, I'm going to delete some of this. Not delete it, but it might be out. Just because there's just a way of cramps going on right now, I don't need them all. Very tested all this. And if you want to see the other videos, I code all of it with you. So I try to do here on YouTube, everyone's well, I'm just going to show over my shoulder like what I'm doing. And my father is, you know, I'm going to code either way for myself. I'm going to build new bots every single day or update my old bots. And if I can, you know, help make a light bulb go off in your mind, that's awesome. Because now I'm not just helping myself. I don't have the others at the same time. So if signal is sell, I want to get the position size again. In position, did I get this position size up here? I think I did. So I'm going to do it somewhere in position, position size. If signal is sell, then we want to fix them. Sorry, I'm not on feeder. So I'm going to go in base, cancel all orders and then CB symbol. And then we want to get rid of all of our positions. So how do we do that? I think we just, you know, this is dependent on what your size is. But I think we just put it on the limit. So place order on limit. Place a sell order. Now I don't know what your table size is, but I think it's a big order. But it will loop through until it's closed. So let's go ahead and pick answers one on over here. So place sell at the limit. So we need to get the bid and ask. And we will put it on the ask. So get bid ask. Oh, I guess I could just do it here. So I don't know. Get bid ask here. bid ask. Okay, so let's just get a bit of an ask real quick. So I can code that up pretty quickly. I actually have a good example somewhere. Maybe on the risk helper. Here we go ask for it. So I'm just going to grab this information. And from here, I can just copy this in. I don't know what's going to work, but no, you know what? I need to do this outside of this function because we have to try it out. So let's do it at the top because it's a useful function to have. So ask bid symbol plus cb symbol. Okay. And then we just paste that in there and then over is that. Let's see if it's the same. We'll see. Ask. Run the ask bid. And then time does sleep. So we don't do anything else. Let's try that out. Let's see if we can get the ask. Okay, perfect. So the ask is 0.936. And let's try to get. Let's see if it changes. So I'm seeing on my screen 9358. Perfect. 9358. Okay. So we have the bid in the ask now. And we got to return it. Return ask bid. And then we will just do ask bid 1 0 because that's where the ask is. Ask bid 0 equals the ask. We just like that. And a cell order. So I would just create that cell order and we can just build it similar to this. And this would just be total size or no in position. In position. Did I get the size already? So here. So the position size would be that. So you be simple and the ask would be this. Okay, perfect. So how do we test this? I'm pretty confident. Let me know if you see an error. Cp symbol, position size, the ask. And then we'll say. And then we'll just do this. And then we'll just loop and do this. Forever. And tell it there is no position. And then once there is a position. I left in position equals true. Then. Okay, so if there is no position and buy in the signal. So short, it's not going to do anything. I'm going to sleep here. Sleeping by. Time to sleep. There's no need to run it over and over again. So here, cell signal is. And then L. L. Print. We are in position. But chilling. Sleeping. Time to sleep. Well, I guess I could just run it every 30 seconds. Listen to. No, 30 seconds is not that long. Okay, so. Let's take this through now. So if we're in position as false, then we'll buy. L is, you know, the signal is saying the signal is short. So we're not. But if I left we are in position. And the signal cell. Meaning we're in position, but we shouldn't be. And we get to ask. And we print that out. And. We cancel our orders. I really want to try this out. So let's say in position, false. Dang, I really need to remember the changes. Change back to true. And then the signal is by. Change that. So the position is false. I need to get a position. So let me just buy one here. Market by. Okay, I just bought some. I have one. Matic now. Oh, okay, so it was going up. Sorry, I'm looking at my queries account. I know, and it says, I'm using some USDs on hold, but that's because I have a buy order from the bot. I think I just can't go to the bottom. So now I have one met. And I need to make sure to change it back. And I'm going to have to change this back to to the end position. Oh, I don't need to change this back. I just put this back to the end position. So this is pretty much saying that if the end position is false, which it should not be false anymore since I have a position. And so it's going to ignore this. I don't need to change anything back. And then LF in position is true, which I don't need to change back either. If signals buy, it just need to change this back to sell because the signal right now is buy. So I want to make sure this works. And let me just print order one so we can both see it. Because right now I'm looking at my other computer. And I just want to make sure this works. So let's do it. And I think I can run it. So let's see what happens. It's going to do its little demand on bank. Find the man. And then over here it should put an order on the ask. Buy minimum is one. Okay, I just miss something up. This is why we had a track. Position size on the ask. But the position size. What's the position size there? Print position size. And it's timed out sleep. So it does nothing. So it needs seven. Shout out. It takes a couple seconds. Too many requests. Wow. You got to update that because I'm not making that many requests. Okay, so buy. Got one. And it says the notion of sizes one. I think what's happening is I'm trying to put an order in for 1.0079. And that is not chill because it's too much too many. Let's do it around. So this one. And then let's print the person. I need to see what that looks like. Because I think it's actually a pretty small amount. Like it's 0.9354 right now. So I want to make sure that that is going to work. Okay, so it's 1.0. What the heck? I thought I was just around. Do I not know how to run it? Hi, shi-sh. I always do that. I've done that like 12 times in the series. So let's just give it a minute. Okay. Now let's try it. 5.00. That should be fine. Oh, but it's not that I'm silly. I'm going to make this a 2. And then it should round to here. And that should be good. So I'm not even going to do the same. I'm just going to let it run. Because it was actually not the price. It was the size right. Too many requests. All right. So this I need to put some sleeps in here somewhere. But I'm not going to do it because if it hits to me requests it will just fail and then try again later. It's just kind of annoying that Coinbase is throttling like this. Minimum is 1. Coinbase Pro, notional is too small. But let's see what the size is. It's 1. In position. Is this inside? Oh, you know what it might be? I think I know what's going on. And I think it's because I'll give it a little more time. It's rounded. Let's just read this again. Coinbase Pro, notional is too small. Okay. Minimum is 1. Well, you just said it was 1. Here. So it's 1.0. So maybe did I get what's get position? Look at my is this give me an integer flow? What's it look like? Where do you get position? Position size is a flow. I'm just going to do this. I'm going to change this to 1. I don't care. That might be tricky though for like other, I'm doing e-fish and things. I'll think this through, but for now I'm going to put that as 0.1. But what I could do. I'm going to put this as 0.1. So that's a 0.1. In position is true. Now the size needs to be, it's so weird to me, but maybe I'm just doing this wrong. And this is part of coding for me, I make this a all of them. If you see more by, well that's one thing, that's messed up. Maybe that should be itself. I'm trying to buy more. Damn, that's probably it. Minimum is 1. Because notional is too small. Minimum is 1. That's super weird to me because I see 1 right there. Position size and what's position size? Position size is up here and we printed that. I'm going to put it just by one more. Maybe it has something to do with that. Now I have 2 metta. I know you can't see it, but we can look at the code. Now I have 2 metta. Should show 2 metta here. Probably give me an error saying too many poles or whatever. Okay, now it works. And it's filled. No, it hasn't filled. But it works now. That's super weird to me that it can take 2 but not 1. Okay, but now it works. That's awesome. I'm happy about that. And now what I need to do here is just loop this forever. Because now this bot can just run. Holy smokes, you didn't remind me. I can't forget about that. This. Change back to self. Glad we tested it though because I had a bite on it or that. It was, oh my goodness, I'm so bad. Why can't I both think? I can't believe this is crazy. That would have been so bad. Happy that we tested it. But now I think it's just going to run every 5 seconds. Let's just run it and see what happens. I've canceled the other orders. Now I should just make 2 orders because the signal was 5. And it's going to put it at the demand zones of whatever one I put. I can't remember 5 minutes maybe. Yep, the 5 minute demand zones is going to set the orders there. Should say, boom, boom. Wish you could see my screen but you can't. That's fine. But you see the orders here. Just created 2 orders. Now it's going to sleep for 5 minutes. And then what's going to happen after it sleeps? Well, I'll show you. After it sleeps for 5 minutes, that's right here. I'm going to go down here and pass the LLIFT. And then it's just going to print some stuff out. I'm going to make it print. Let's do that. And then print. Let's do this. And that will show that in a different order. I'm in a different loop. And now since I'm done making this video, I don't like this. I don't like printing this stuff out. I think we are pretty solid. It goes here now. And I'm going to let this bot run and see how it does. Essentially going to bind up. I'm going to supply the demand zones. And I think next version of this bot. The next thing I'm going to do in this bot. And let me know. I've made a lot of supply and demand zones bots this far on this series. So I might just do this one off camera. But I hope you understand everything this far. Please go watch the rest of the playlist if you have any questions. Or let me know below or in the discord. But I think the next thing I would add here is to do. I'm going to add a cell in the supply zone. So we'll have two cells. One kind of a stop loss, which is this. But then the other cell will be when it hits the supply zone. So the opposite of the demand zone. And that will be more of like this. What we've built right here is more of like a hold. Buy and hold. But this would be a more of a trade. This would be a cell for profit. Right now it's like buy hold with a stop loss. This when we add this it would be a buy hold. And sell at the supply zone. Which would be cool. And I could put like the 10 minute supply zone. I mean the 15, the twint, the hour before our. And so on. But I hope you love this. I'm super excited to start writing this. So I'm going to do that. I'm going to let this run for a while. And let me know in the comment section or jump in the discord. Like I said, somebody shared a super good strategy. I need to review it. Maybe just make it. And then throw it in the discord. I don't know. But we shall see. And I will see you somewhere.